Climate visas could give victims of natural disasters safe route to UK, says thinktank.
UN conference hears litany of water disasters linked to climate crisis.
Does Labor’s climate policy meet this critical moment?
‘A bit of a Swiss army knife’: the leadership duo aiming to help Greenpeace UK cut through.
A UK citizen’s assembly on nature gives us hope, but can we really change?
London last summer was the trailer for a climate disaster movie. Here’s how to stop that coming true.
Cargo ships powered by wind could help tackle climate crisis.
Labor and Greens could agree to compromise on non-fossil fuel industries in safeguard mechanism.
Decline of more than 500 species of marine life on Australian reefs ‘the tip of the iceberg’, study finds.
Etihad accused of misleading customers with greenwashing in ‘net zero’ ads.
Pressure grows on shipping industry to accept carbon levy.
New climate paper calls for charging big US oil firms with homicide.
Voice referendum question and constitutional amendment could come tomorrow.
Somalis are dying because of a climate crisis they didn’t cause. More aid isn’t the answer.
Bob Brown renounces Australian Conservation Foundation life membership over Labor’s climate policy.
Eight things the world must do to avoid the worst of climate change.
Hundreds of trees to be felled for Cambridge bus route to tackle climate change.
The IPCC’s climate report has drawn the battle lines for Cop28: oil profits or a livable future.
Drought caused 43,000 ‘excess deaths’ in Somalia last year, half of them young children.
‘A living pantry’: how an urban food forest in Arizona became a model for climate action.
Four climate activists convicted of causing public nuisance, but no jail term.
Every household will go on a journey of electrification. We can make that easier, or harder.
The black summer bushfires killed 3 billion animals. They are our relatives; they deserve to be mourned.
‘One and done’ parents are some of the most thoughtful and compassionate I have met.
Solar is now viable even in rainy climes – so why aren’t we making hay?
The Guardian view on Rishi Sunak’s energy plan: playing with fire.
Hasty changes to Sunak’s climate strategy reveal a warring Tory party.
Net zero strategy shows UK will miss 2030 emissions cuts target.
Postponing state pension age decision ‘not exactly a sign of strength’, Jacob Rees-Mogg tells Tories.
Climate activists disrupt Humza Yousaf's first FMQs five times.
‘Terrified for my future’: climate crisis takes heavy toll on young people’s mental health.
£3.5m of Tory donations linked to pollution and climate denial, says report.
How could the UK’s net zero plan involve new oil and gas? It’s mind-bogglingly stupid.
‘Half-baked, half-hearted’: critics deride UK’s long-awaited climate strategy.
Australia passes most significant climate law in a decade amid concern over fossil fuel exports.
UK is Europe’s worst private jet polluter, study finds.
‘Beginning of a new era’: Pacific islanders hail UN vote on climate justice.
A climate policy that actually cuts emissions? It’s the reality that fossil fuel bosses and News Corp commentators can’t see.
United Nations adopts landmark resolution on climate justice.
Melting Antarctic ice predicted to cause rapid slowdown of deep ocean current by 2050.
Five ways AI could improve the world: ‘We can cure all diseases, stabilise our climate, halt poverty’.
Tuesday was world’s hottest day on record – breaking Monday’s record.
The public can power Britain to net zero.
Big tech vows to fight climate crisis but employs fossil fuel-linked lobbyists.
UK risks shattering global standing by dumping £11.6bn climate pledge, ministers told.
‘Double agents’: fossil-fuel lobbyists work for US groups trying to fight climate crisis.
State Farm stopped insuring California homes due to climate risks. But it shares lobbyists with big oil.
‘Stereotypes are evolving’: female divers shake up conservative Jordan.
Ocean temperatures around Australia 0.5C above June average as UN declares an El Niño.
Monday was hottest day for global average temperature on record, as climate crisis bites.
Revealed: UK plans to drop flagship £11.6bn climate pledge.
Climate grief is real – and I cannot keep watching images of our dying planet.
Improving soil could keep world within 1.5C heating target, research suggests.
Climate-heating El Niño has arrived and threatens lives, declares UN.
Another deadly pandemic seems inevitable – but there is a way to avoid it.
‘The result was amazing’: one man’s mission to reforest a barren Irish hillside.
Australia resists Japan’s lobbying for NT gas export project to be given special treatment.
Millions swelter under extreme heat as climate crisis tightens grip on US.
The Guardian view on Europe’s green deal: blowing in the wind?
Prairie planting takes root in UK as gardeners battle drought and floods.
Climate crisis is 'out of control', says UN after world's hottest week.
Shipping emissions levy delayed but goals for greenhouse gas cuts agreed.
Keir Starmer accused of ‘wavering on climate commitments’.
Disruptive protest helps rather than hinders activists’ cause, experts say.
Sweltering weather has left swaths of the US baking. A ‘heat tsar’ could help, experts say.
At least 50 dead in Pakistan monsoon floods since end of June.
Why are people dying at sea? They are fleeing disasters that we once called ‘biblical’, and now call normal.
UN says climate change ‘out of control’ after likely hottest week on record.
‘Revolutionary’ solar power cell innovations break key energy threshold.
Air pollution could kill London as a sporting capital, Sebastian Coe warns.
We must revive the spirit of the Stansted 15.
Do Shell chief’s claims about cutting oil output being dangerous stack up?
Greta Thunberg charged with disobeying Swedish police during oil protest.
Government says it will comply with high court ruling saying it must give Covid inquiry all documents it wants.
'Stop U-turning, Keir': Starmer heckled by climate protesters.
Shell boss under fire for saying cutting fossil fuel production is ‘dangerous’.
Thursday briefing: How the Conservatives went from ‘greenest government ever’ to giving up on climate.
‘Swallowed by the sand’: Somalia’s coastal towns succumb to the desert.
EU sets out first-ever soil law to protect food security and slow global heating.
Cop27 first-timers from Pakistan, Nigeria and Spain share their experiences.
‘When a cyclone hits a thatched hut in the Pacific Islands, it’s raw and scary’.
If you’re outraged by XR and Just Stop Oil, imagine how disruptive climate breakdown will be.
Getting rid of fossil fuels at a climate summit is harder than you’d think.
UN chief warns of ‘breakdown in trust’ with no deal in sight at Cop27.
Cop27 president bemoans slow negotiations saying some countries failing to address urgency of climate crisis.
Wet pet food is far worse for climate than dry food, study finds.
Cop27: what happened on day 10.
I’m an art historian and climate activist: Just Stop Oil’s art attacks are becoming part of the problem.
Why we need to stop killing coral reefs: underwater in Egypt.
First draft of Cop27 text: what it says and what it means.
‘Asking an arsonist to put out a fire’: climate offender Maduro makes Cop27 comeback.
Kicking our growth addiction is the way out of the climate crisis. This is how to do it.
Draft Cop27 agreement fails to call for ‘phase-down’ of all fossil fuels.
‘Vast’ mass of microbes being released by melting glaciers.
Pallid swifts come to UK shores amid worrying changes in climate.
Majority of Britons say UK should pay for climate action in poor countries.
‘You’ll rarely find a climate denier in east Africa’.
'First digital nation': Tuvalu turns to metaverse as rising seas threaten existence.
Australia told to end new fossil fuel subsidies if it wants Pacific support to host climate summit.
Friday briefing: The climate crisis raged on in 2022 – is there any hope coming?
Summer wildfires increased fourfold in England in 2022.
There’s no such thing as ‘freak’ weather any more – and 2023 already looks like a disaster movie.
‘I am an optimistic person’: the scientist who studies climate catastrophes.
Australia’s record-breaking weather in 2022: a very wet and sometimes very hot year.
This year, I only needed to open my window in Brazil to witness the climate crisis.
2022 will be warmest year on record in UK, says Met Office.
Harvesting human pee and DIY fertiliser: top conservation issues in 2023.
UK wildlife ‘devastated by litany of weather extremes’ in 2022.
Australians are feeling the heat of climate change. For the fossil fuel industry it’s still business as usual.
Climate impact labels could help people eat less red meat.
Reliance on hi-tech solutions to climate crisis perpetuates racism, says UN official.
Biggest climate toll in year of ‘devastating’ disasters revealed.
BP criticised over plan to spend billions more on fossil fuels than green energy.
The classic ocean poetry taking on troubling new meanings.
Shifting gears: why US cities are falling out of love with the parking lot.
Svalbard reindeer thrive as they shift diet towards ‘popsicle-like’ grasses.
Can geoengineering fix the climate? Hundreds of scientists say not so fast.
Quiz.
Polar bears vanishing from ‘polar bear capital of the world’ in Canada.
Australian councils told to cut emissions rather than spend millions on overseas carbon offsets.
‘No miracles needed’: Prof Mark Jacobson on how wind, sun and water can power the world.
‘No chance’ of global heating below 1.5C but nuclear tech ‘promising’ in climate crisis, Bill Gates says.
‘It used to be like heaven’: the Iraq wetlands decimated by the climate crisis.
Climate crisis and neglect threaten Spain’s saffron crop.
Is it time to turn western Sydney into a city of fountains? It might help beat the heat.
Trend to mend: cost of living crisis puts darning back in vogue.
‘Inside we are all struggling’: storm-bruised California begins recovery.
The ‘carbon pirates’ preying on Amazon’s Indigenous communities.
Extreme swimming, Marina Hyde on a broken police force, and rude place names.
Colombia announces halt on fossil fuel exploration for a greener economy.
New carbon offset standards ‘should bring greater scrutiny’.
Frederick McCubbin’s descendants back protesters who defaced artwork.
Exxon’s predictions about the climate crisis may have increased its legal peril.
The climate crisis threatens economic stability – why are central bankers divided?
Can Extinction Rebellion’s new brand of climate protest win people over?.
How you can help Britain meet its net zero climate goal.
‘Super-tipping points’ could trigger cascade of climate action.
Qantas, Origin and other Australian companies urged to check effectiveness of overseas rainforest carbon credits.
‘Years to rebuild’: Biden takes in scale of California storm destruction on visit.
Adam Morton on Australia and the climate crisis: what happened in 2022 and what’s next?
The 10 biggest science stories of 2022 – chosen by scientists.
A newborn held aloft in Pakistan sums up the sheer injustice of the climate crisis.
Despite the hype, we shouldn’t bank on nuclear fusion to save the world from climate catastrophe.
‘We have a long way to go’: can the UK hit its ambitious 30% rewilding targets?
‘Face it head on’: Connecticut makes climate change studies compulsory.
SpaceX launches Swot satellite in Nasa-led global water survey mission.
More than 1 in 10 species could be lost by end of century, study warns.
Almost 8,000 US shootings attributed to unseasonable heat – study.
Witness to paradise being lost: my year in the dying Amazon.
Can America’s low-cost mobile homes withstand the climate crisis?
Best of 2022: ‘A deranged pyroscape’: how fires across the world have grown weirder.
Cop15: Australia, US commit to measuring value of nature and reflecting it in national accounts.
A lifetime of learning how not to be racist.
Seaweed compost and bean ‘manure’ among RHS garden trends for 2023.
‘Firmageddon’: Oregon conifers suffer record die-off as climate crisis hits hard.
Climate activist Deanna ‘Violet’ Coco reveals why she was prepared to risk jail time.
The age of extinction: can we prevent an ecological collapse?
Nasa mission will give unprecedented view of Earth’s surface water.
How the climate crisis is driving stronger storms further inland.
In the ocean’s twilight zone, a fish that could feed the world – or destroy it.
Heat deaths, scorched trees and civil unrest: life on the climate frontline in 2022.
‘Unique’ autumn show predicted for UK trees – but decline may follow.
AGL will close Victoria’s coal-fired power station Loy Yang A a decade early.
Cop27: Egyptian hosts urge leaders to set aside tensions over Ukraine.
America’s hardest-hit communities need Biden to declare a climate emergency.
Revealed: 5,000 empty ‘ghost flights’ in UK since 2019, data shows.
Clearing California’s landscapes is critical to stopping megablazes. Why is it taking so long?
Mike Cannon-Brookes to back new AGL board members in bid to clean up climate polluter.
Earth is under threat, yet you would scarcely know it.
Cause for optimism at Cop15 – but could Bolsonaro scupper the deal for nature?
Fossil fuel recruiters banned from UK university careers service.
Australia urged to adopt 75% emissions reduction target by 2035 if it is to reach net zero.
Climate campaigner ejected from Labour event sponsored by Drax power plant firm.
Share your thoughts on the Guardian’s climate reporting.
Carbon bombs and Gulf Stream collapse: the most urgent climate stories of our time.
North Yorkshire puts seaweed at the heart of its carbon-negative ambitions.
Climate complacency has left firefighters ill-prepared, says union chief.
Huge expansion of oil pipelines endangering climate, says report.
Utama review – gentle study of Bolivian family facing the end of their way of life.
‘The ghost that haunts Monteverde’: how the climate crisis killed the golden toad.
China to take military action against Taiwan within two decades, Kevin Rudd says.
Beyond 8 billion: why the world’s population matters.
World still ‘on brink of climate catastrophe’ after Cop27 deal.
EU president says Cop27 deal is ‘small step towards climate justice’ but warns much more to be done.
A deal on loss and damage, but a blow to 1.5C – what will be Cop27’s legacy?
Satya Savitzky obituary.
‘We couldn’t fail them’: how Pakistan’s floods spurred fight at Cop for loss and damage fund.
The big takeaway from Cop27? These climate conferences just aren’t working.
‘We can do the impossible’: how key players reacted to end of Cop27 climate summit.
No ice rinks, fewer lights: Christmas markets across Europe scaled back as energy costs soar.
The 1.5C climate goal died at Cop27 – but hope must not.
What are the key outcomes of Cop27 climate summit?
Climate activists occupy Gordon Ramsay Michelin-starred restaurant.
Cop27 agrees historic ‘loss and damage’ fund for climate impact in developing countries.
Rich nations relent on climate aid to poor at Cop27.
Five crucial issues in fight to save planet – and what Cop27 did about them.
China and US renew commitment to tackling climate crisis but differences remain.
Cop27 talks in disarray with 1.5C goal at risk, campaigners warn.
Dear year 12: if you’re going to start a career at the end of the world, you may as well follow your dreams.
Japan’s climate policy ‘failed to build on the legacy of Kyoto’.
John Kerry examining likely impact of new UK coalmine.
Violet Coco is not alone: the climate activists facing jail.
The US is a rogue state leading the world towards ecological collapse.
Cumbria coalmine protests planned as local opposition grows.
What archaeologists discovered about climate change in prehistoric England.
How does the 15-month jail term for environmental protester Violet Coco compare to other sentences?
As a climate activist who has been jailed in Russia, I’m concerned about Australia’s treatment of Violet Coco.
Poor performance now ‘the norm’ for some water firms, warns Ofwat.
New Cumbria coalmine ‘like opening a Betamax factory’, says Tim Farron.
Puffin nesting sites in western Europe could be lost by end of century.
Why knowing your neighbors could save you in the next climate disaster.
David Pocock and the Greens welcome Labor’s environmental reforms but push for more urgent action.
Could Cumbria coalmine be stopped despite government green light?
Rising temperatures causing distress to foetuses, study reveals.
Australia needs ‘wartime mobilisation’ response to climate crisis, security leaders say.
The draconian law that saw climate activist Violet Coco jailed.
Top 10 polar photobooks.
Fen, Bog & Swamp by Annie Proulx review – where have all our wetlands gone?
Vulnerable countries demand global tax to pay for climate-led loss and damage.
Burning world’s fossil fuel reserves could emit 3.5tn tons of greenhouse gas.
‘Near persistent’ natural disasters placing intense pressure on Australian defence force.
Joe Biden latest world leader to witness Queen’s lying in state.
Free carbon credits could threaten Australia’s emission reduction targets, Labor’s advisers warn.
Australia is pushing to host a Cop meeting – if successful it would be forced to ramp up climate action.
As resistance grows to the fossil fuel regime, laws are springing up everywhere to suppress climate activists.
Rare ‘special warning’ issued as violent typhoon makes landfall in Japan.
Would the campaign to save the Franklin River work today?
Criticism intensifies after big oil admits ‘gaslighting’ public over green aims.
‘Africa is on the frontlines but not the front pages’: Vanessa Nakate on her climate fight.
Pakistan reels from floods: ‘We thought we’d die of hunger. Now we fear death from water’.
Fork in the road: can Tasmania unwind the environmental damage at Lake Pedder?
Australia should aim for net zero by 2040, new Climate Change Authority member says.
More than 50 Just Stop Oil protesters in UK sent to jail on one day.
The 1.5C global heating target is more than just a number.
Will King Charles follow the lead of Patagonia owner’s $3bn giveaway?
Rate of sea level rise around New Zealand doubles in past 60 years.
University drops Santos branding of kids’ science roadshow after climate concerns raised.
King Charles meets Joe Biden in Windsor to discuss climate crisis.
Italy heatwave could push temperatures close to European record.
The big idea: why climate tribalism only helps the deniers.
US swelters as south-west braces for record-breaking heatwave up to 120F.
UK should quit ‘climate-wrecking’ energy treaty, say official advisers.
I walked the Alps’ largest glacier. It felt like ‘last-chance tourism’.
‘Fear is motivating’ says Chris Packham as BBC series re-creates past extinction event.
Just Stop Oil applauds Osborne wedding protest but denies responsibility.
Gas flaring and venting wastes resources and heats the planet – it must be curbed.
‘It’s not climate change, it’s everything change’: sci-fi authors take on the global crisis.
First Oxford Street M&S, now Euston Tower: don’t pull them down, renovate.
‘You should have seen this note’: US meteorologists harassed for reporting on climate crisis.
The planet heats, the world economy cools – the real global recession is ecological.
It’s not just the Bank of England feeling the heat from wrong forecasts.
Missed all our net zero targets? No sweat. Rishi Sunak is 100% on it.
El Niño: what does it mean for Australia – and are more heatwaves and bushfires inevitable?
Climate scientist Maisa Rojas: ‘I have a mandate to be part of Chile’s first ecological, feminist government’.
Scientists say poisonous pea could be made vital climate crisis crop.
Janet Yellen urges China to boost funding to tackle climate crisis.
And now we cross live to the Earth after a massive week.
Will El Niño on top of global heating create the perfect climate storm?
‘Green amendments’: advocates push for constitutional guarantees in face of climate crisis.
Extinction Rebellion plugs holes on 10 Spanish golf courses in water protest.
The planet’s economist: has Kate Raworth found a model for sustainable living?.
Celebrities call on Wimbledon to drop Barclays sponsorship.
Tuvalu – how do you save a disappearing country?
Never mind the fate of life on Earth, what about the cat-children?
Sunak U-turn on wind farms in England draws wrath of green Tories.
The Observer view on Rishi Sunak’s lack of commitment to the environment.
Just Stop Oil protesters disrupt London Pride over ‘polluting’ sponsors.
Just four pupils left: how the sea rose up on a Thai village.
Is Pride the right target for Just Stop Oil? Yes, when it’s letting our common enemy off the hook.
Rishi Sunak urged to heed criticism on climate after Zac Goldsmith quits.
Watchdog rejects Johnson’s suggestion Sue Gray’s Labour job meant she was not impartial investigating Partygate.
Goldsmith says Sunak is apathetic about the environment. It’s hard to disagree.
Zac Goldsmith’s resignation letter in full.
‘It’s become unbearable’: Texas workers toil through extreme heatwave.
Climate groups accept millions from charity linked to fossil fuel investments.
Before the flood: how much longer will the Thames Barrier protect London?
Switzerland and France accused of lack of climate action in ECHR hearing.
The UK’s ‘green day’ has turned into a fossil fuel bonanza – dirty money powers the Sunak government.
‘How do you laugh about death?’: the comedians tackling climate change.
Thorpe votes with Coalition on Indigenous land council inquiry.
UK scientists urge Rishi Sunak to halt new oil and gas developments.
UK ‘strikingly unprepared’ for impacts of climate crisis.
Rishi Sunak grilled on small boats, childcare and HS2 at Commons liaison committee.
Net zero tsar and senior Tories among those urging biomass subsidies rethink.
Rise of ‘fuel-guzzling’ SUVs costing Australians $13bn extra at the pump per year, report finds.
Albanese government faces decisions on coalmines that could add 16m tonnes of CO2 emissions annually.
Thames Water ordered to fix leaks before pumping millions of litres from rivers.
Labour urges ministers to show ‘ambition’ as it recasts green growth plan.
Meatball from long-extinct mammoth created by food firm.
‘We are very vulnerable’: cyclone-hit Vanuatu pins climate hopes on UN vote.
Labor agrees to absolute cap on emissions to secure Greens backing for safeguard mechanism climate bill.
Unions call for energy transition authority to help workers exiting fossil fuel sector.
It’s not perfect, but the Labor-Greens climate deal should limit emissions and fossil fuels. That matters.
Climate change is the legacy of people over the age of 60. That’s why we must protest.
Dutton stays silent in question time.
The Labor-Greens deal on the safeguard mechanism gives each party a win.
Little progress made on energy efficiency in UK homes, report finds.
There’s no greater feminist cause than the climate fight – and saving each other.
Wash, blow dry and 1.5 degrees please: hairdressers trained to talk about climate action.
As Australia faces a ‘hydrogen tipping point’, the energy industry needs smart policies, not huge handouts.
Autumn has been totally skewwhiff in Sydney this year, devoid of its customary cadence and meter.
'Water unites us all': UN chief makes plea for unity to stave off crisis.
Power move: Stacey Abrams’ next act is the electrification of the US.
First global water conference in 50 years yields hundreds of pledges, zero checks.
‘Like you’re in a horror movie’: pollution leaves New Zealand wetlands irreversibly damaged.
A favourite reef, a beloved atoll: Marshall Islands parents name children after vanishing landmarks.
UK planning to launch watered down net zero strategy in oil capital Aberdeen.
Not a fringe issue: the hairdressers trained to talk to their clients about climate change.
Seemingly ambitious Defra hedgerow targets actually due to typo.
Slow Violence review – surreal comedy of apocalyptic office politics.
Top lawyers defy bar to declare they will not prosecute peaceful climate protesters.
Why I’m joining more than 100 lawyers in refusing to prosecute climate protesters.
Forget geoengineering. We need to stop burning fossil fuels. Right now.
The Greens face one of the biggest decisions of their political lives as Labor’s climate policy hangs in the balance.
This is the last ever cartoon about climate change (of course it isn’t).
Sky and the Australian find ‘no evidence’ of a climate emergency – they weren’t looking hard enough.
How investments in the Earth’s future should be made by Patagonia and others.
Denmark offers ‘loss and damage’ funding to poorer countries for climate breakdown.
Drought threatens UK government’s mass forestry scheme.
‘It is beyond bleak’: Pakistan floods affecting 16m children, says Unicef.
We need to be told the true climate cost of Schumer and Manchin’s pipeline side deal.
How the climate crisis is fueling the spread of a brain-eating amoeba.
Why should we in Pakistan pay for catastrophic floods we had no part in causing?
'Polluters must pay': UN secretary general calls for global windfall tax on energy companies.
‘Polluters must pay’: UN chief calls for windfall tax on fossil fuel companies.
The Guardian view on Pakistan’s floods: life in the aftermath.
Will China’s plan for a ‘green silk road’ live up to environmental promises?
Droughts, heat and fire: the future of wine in the climate crisis.
Patagonia’s radical business move is great – but governments, not billionaires, should be saving the planet.
The Ants and the Grasshopper review – from Malawi to the US to fight climate crisis.
How will Jacob Rees-Mogg tackle the energy and climate crises?
Emissions from Australia’s oil and gas industry rose 20% in first five years of safeguard mechanism.
Nigeria battling floods ‘beyond control’ as warning given of dams overflowing.
Weather tracker: Deadly floods batter Italy’s Adriatic coast.
Tiny solar panels! Miniature road ramps! What other cute technological devices can help save our endangered species?
We will be thanking Just Stop Oil protesters in years to come.
The carbon-free energy of the future: this fusion breakthrough changes everything.
Anthony Albanese’s latest plan to subsidise foreign coal and gas companies is just absurd.
Green tariffs: what are they and why do they matter?
EU becomes first leading economy to legislate for ‘green tariff’ on imports.
Access to green space must be priority for land use in England, peers say.
Climate activist Deanna ‘Violet’ Coco freed from prison while she appeals 15-month jail sentence.
Cumbria coalmine digs a hole for Britain’s climate policy.
Why is it so cold in the UK right now?
UK ministers face legal challenge over North Sea oil and gas licences.
Citizen Nobel review – chemistry prize winner becomes charismatic climate crusader.
What even was 2022?! Wrapping the year with the First Dog on the Moon Institute.
Building for end times: the boom in bunkers.
Drought, fire, flooding and storms are ravaging Australia. Where can we find hope and connection?
Labor’s proposal to fix broken environmental protection system comes with big question marks.
Is the writing on the wall for the British Museum’s BP deal?
Albanese government looking at laws to force big business to disclose climate efforts.
Coalition must listen ‘carefully to Pacific island nations’, Simon Birmingham says before bipartisan tour.
At least a dozen climate activists face jail time under NSW laws used to lock up Violet Coco.
The Observer view on the indefensible decision to open a deep coalmine in a climate crisis.
Rude hippos, big beasts and lockdown for cats: it’s the nature news quiz of the year.
US fails to give money promised for developing countries to ease climate impacts.
‘We got lucky’: inside California’s strangely quiet wildfire year.
Clive Palmer’s coal company seeks to overturn ruling that Queensland mine will harm future generations.
Matt Kean announces NSW target to cut carbon emissions by 70% by 2035.
Emperor penguin at risk of extinction, along with two-thirds of native Antarctic species, research shows.
Amid opposition to gas price caps, Australia’s resources companies make record profits.
Australians reset their priorities in 2022, but in 2023 we must hold our leaders accountable.
Australia's 2022 year in review: the winners, losers and moments of hope.
EU’s emissions continue to fall despite return to coal.
‘Everyone has to work so the family can survive’: floods in Nigeria force children out of schools.
US college biology textbooks failing to address climate crisis, study says.
Avatar 2 should make us completely rethink our relationship with the planet.
How the Guardian covered 2022.
Seven reasons to be cheerful about the Amazon in 2023 – and three to be terrified.
Big oil is behind conspiracy to deceive public, first climate racketeering lawsuit says.
'The 1.5-degree goal is gasping for breath': António Guterres on the state of climate action.
Nuclear fusion ‘holy grail’ is not the answer to our energy prayers.
Climate goal of 1.5C is ‘gasping for breath’, says UN head.
‘False solutions’: scepticism over Saudi carbon capture plan.
Chris Bowen on Cop27’s urgent fight: ‘If we’re not trying to keep to 1.5C then what are we here for?’.
What happened at Cop27 on day 11?
Summit to be extended to Saturday as talks remain gridlocked.
Cop27 talks continue over EU climate loss and damage fund proposal.
US shamed as the ‘colossal fossil’ of Cop27 climate summit by campaigners.
Second draft of Cop27 text: what has changed since the first draft?
Our leaders had a final chance to halt climate breakdown. They failed each and every one of us.
Cop27: is it right to talk of ‘reparations’?
'Have a heart': 10-year-old Ghanaian climate activist receives standing ovation at Cop27.
‘Shameful’ UN silencing Indigenous voices, say banned Cop27 activists.
Time is running out. We must call out the vested interests propelling the climate crisis.
Fashion brands grapple with greenwashing: ‘It’s not a human right to say something is sustainable’.
EU reversal of stance on loss and damage turns tables on China at Cop27.
This warm autumn is a warning: Britain’s seasons are changing for good.
Voters pass historic climate initiatives in ‘silent surprise’ of US midterms.
‘We want people to laugh, gasp and hope’: Ireland hosts climate science circus.
‘No safe place’: Kiribati seeks donors to raise islands from encroaching seas.
Cop27: EU agrees to loss and damage fund to help poor countries amid climate disasters.
EasyJet to stop offsetting CO2 emissions from December.
Camino to Cop26: climate pilgrims walk 135 miles to promote film.
Climate change is GREAT for termites! Wait what is this?
The secrets of Lake Mead and the drought exposing them.
Andy Burnham says nationalising railways ‘a no brainer’.
The safeguard mechanism: Australia’s emissions trading scheme in all but name.
Flood gardens to combat drought and biodiversity loss, says Natural England.
Autumn has arrived in the UK – but the season is not like it used to be.
Head of World Bank under pressure after White House condemns his ‘climate denial’ comments.
Vanuatu makes bold call for global treaty to phase out fossil fuels.
Vanuatu becomes first country to call for global treaty to phase out fossil fuels at UNGA.
Pope calls for courage in halting use of fossil fuels to protect planet.
Thousands call for ‘climate reparations and justice’ in global protests.
Australia should compensate Torres Strait Islanders for climate crisis failure, UN says.
‘A living, breathing building’: the rise of resilience centers amid extreme heat in the US.
Tintagel among castles at risk unless England can hold back the tide.
Activists subvert poster sites to shame aviation and ad industries.
Fracking could affect many protected areas across England as ban is lifted.
How the gas industry capitalized on the Ukraine war to change Biden policy.
King Charles’s ‘dotty’ environmental views are now mainstream.
Scientists discover emperor penguin colony in Antarctica using satellite images.
Tory mayor condemns ‘broken begging bowl culture’ of Sunak’s levelling up policy.
‘Ridiculous’: Greta Thunberg blasts decision to let UAE oil boss chair climate talks.
Rishi Sunak criticised after third domestic RAF jet flight in 10 days.
Net zero tsar: Tories will lose election without strong climate policies.
UK net zero report: what are its recommendations and conclusions?
NSW environment watchdog to require companies to show how they will hit net zero and then nudge them to improve.
Greta Thunberg in Davos: It's absurd we listen to those causing climate crisis.
Shell to spend $450m on carbon offsetting as fears grow that credits may be worthless.
Are cows at sea the future of farming?
Dutton turns up heat on PM over interview transcript.
Bewick’s swan population vanishing in Britain amid the climate crisis.
Spoof billboard ads take aim at BMW and Toyota over ‘going green’ claims.
Frederick McCubbin painting defaced with Woodside logo in protest at Art Gallery of Western Australia.
Could the return of El Niño in 2023 take us above 1.5C of warming?.
Morning Mail: ‘Phantom’ carbon credits revealed, right to be forgotten considered, Ukraine pleads for tanks.
Environmental justice targets needed to cut global inequality, say researchers.
Exxon and the 1970s climate predictions that were ignored.
Extreme heat could put 40% of land vertebrates in peril by end of century.
Spate of natural disasters takes a toll on Australians’ mental health, survey finds.
‘We saved the cat’: flood-hit NSW town of Forbes could be divided for days.
The Australian reheats discredited climate claims in Cop ‘fact check’.
Devastating floods in Nigeria were 80 times more likely because of climate crisis.
Lula vows to undo environmental degradation and halt deforestation.
What happened at Cop27 on day nine?
Curbing population growth will do little to solve the climate crisis.
Protests, posters and the return of Lula: days nine and 10 at Cop 27.
Global heating to drive stronger La Niña and El Niño events by 2030, researchers say.
NSW floods: Amber Stevens airlifted from atop a water tank with her baby, husband and two dogs.
Victorian Greens set sights on Labor’s inner-city heartland … again.
Weather disasters hit 90% of US counties in last 11 years, report finds.
Sunak’s growth fetish is a problem: he’s heading for the same budget trap as Truss.
Qatar’s World Cup of woe: inside the 18 November Guardian Weekly.
‘It turns out that a sandstorm is not the same wherever it happens’.
UAE using role as Cop28 host to lobby on its climate reputation.
Introducing noisycharts: graphs and data you can hear.
Chris Bowen takes leadership role in Cop27 talks as John Kerry praises Australia’s climate U-turn.
Australia criticised for resisting Cop27 push to end international fossil fuel subsidies.
BBC climate editor removed after questioning Russian delegation on Ukraine at Cop27.
What is the sound of Facebook’s value crashing? Noisycharts turns news into noise.
‘Our children may not want to be farmers’: living on the frontline of global heating.
US-China deal on emissions welcomed by global figures and climate experts.
Muddled, top-down, technocratic: why the green new deal should be scrapped.
Meet the ‘inactivists’, tangling up the climate crisis in culture wars.
US and China announce surprise climate agreement.
Scott Morrison challenged over false claims about Labor's electric cars policy.
Boris Johnson drags Tories ever deeper into sleaze bath.
China and US announce agreement to cooperate at Cop26.
Cop26 draft criticised for lack of financial help for vulnerable countries.
The Guardian view on the Cop26 draft outcome: raise the bar.
‘Devoid of ambition’: Secret Negotiators on the Cop26 draft text.
‘Projection fight’ breaks out on side of Cop26 venue in Glasgow.
Cop26 – a tragedy in two acts where the rich nations knife poor countries in the back.
Climate action can’t be endlessly put off.
Australia lobbied Unesco to remove reference to 1.5C global warming limit to protect heritage sites.
Cop26 draft text annotated: what it says and what it means.
Inside the controversial world of animal testing: 'It's not putting lipstick on a kitten'.
Leading climate scientist Katharine Hayhoe: ‘You have the ability to use your voice’.
Nalleli Cobo: the young activist who led her LA neighborhood against big oil.
Barack Obama has a nerve preaching about the climate crisis.
Why 2023 will be a watershed year for climate litigation.
Eelgrass: the endangered marine plant vital to keeping climate stable.
Australia could swing from three years of La Niña to hot and dry El Niño in 2023.
John Kerry: rich countries must respond to developing world anger over climate.
Tuesday briefing: Why Extinction Rebellion is giving up on disruption.
‘Extreme event’: warm January weather breaks records across Europe.
Peace in Ukraine and record heatwaves: our supporters’ predictions for 2023.
The hidden underwater forests that could help tackle the climate crisis.
The Albanese government has had a solid start. Now comes the hard part.
More than 2,400 lives will be lost to bushfires in Australia over a decade, experts predict.
Extinction Rebellion announces move away from disruptive tactics.
Sport, TV, tech and fashion: what does 2023 have in store for us?
Lake Mead’s receding waters revealed long-lost bodies. But who are they?
The world in 2023: what our writers say you should watch out for.
Amid the climate crisis, Covid and crumbling democracies, I find hope in people who show the best of humanity.
Environmental review of 2022: another mile on the ‘highway to climate hell’.
US response to the climate emergency: key moments of 2022.
‘Instead of living in fear of climate catastrophe, I’ll do something about it’: the thing I’ll do differently in 2023.
Inflation, waiting lists, strikes, rail chaos, climate emergency: the 2022 polycrisis.
The Guardian view on Europe’s rural revolt: sustainability is in farmers’ interests too.
Joe Biden should end support for overseas oil and gas projects.
Amazon rainforest could reach ‘tipping point’ by 2050, scientists warn.
‘By preserving the language, you reinforce communities’: a school saving one of Louisiana’s oldest dialects.
Australia-Tuvalu deal on climate and security may be at risk, intelligence boss says.
Spectre of ‘climate wars’ looms in Queensland as LNP urged to back government’s emissions reduction target.
What has Louisiana’s governor done his first month in office? Boost fossil fuels.
From the archive: The air conditioning trap: how cold air is heating the world.
Polar bears risk starvation as they face longer ice-free periods in the Arctic.
Australian fossil fuel tax could raise $100bn in first year alone, Rod Sims and Ross Garnaut say.
‘We are in an era of megafires’: new tactics demanded as wildfires intensify across South America.
Climate experts sound alarm over thriving plant life at Greenland ice sheet.
Certified natural gas is ‘dangerous greenwashing scheme’, US senators say.
Just Stop Oil’s art-based protests can speak to future generations – or even the cosmos.
Great Lakes average ice cover drops to 6%, one of lowest levels ever recorded.
‘It’s impossible to breathe’: Delhi’s rubbish dumps drive sky-high methane emissions.
Revealed: the 1,200 big methane leaks from waste dumps trashing the planet.
National self-interest stymying global cooperation, report finds.
From turtles to fruit bats, migratory species increasingly under threat, says UN.
Woodside dramatically expands oil and gas exploration spend despite net zero pledge.
The Guardian view on climate politics: net zero must stay as policy.
Court orders UK government to explain how net zero policies will reach targets.
Extreme UK weather: flights halted as runways melt and temperatures exceed 38C in parts of England.
Climate action is fighting back against big polluters. We don’t need to end Australia’s climate wars – we need to win them.
State of the environment: shocking report shows how Australia’s land and wildlife are being destroyed.
The climate crisis is coming home in our sweltering cities.
‘It’s not really safe’: climate anxiety casts a shadow in sunny Scarborough.
Extreme heat in the UK.
‘Heat apocalypse’ warning in western France as thousands flee wildfire.
Climate-crisis anxiety denial is everywhere. But this week it’s impossible to ignore our worries.
Why is the UK so unprepared for extreme heat and what can be done?
Humanity faces ‘collective suicide’ over climate crisis, warns UN chief.
This heatwave has eviscerated the idea that small changes can tackle extreme weather.
UK is no longer a cold country and must adapt to heat, say climate scientists.
Humanity faces ‘collective suicide’ over climate crisis, warns UN chief.
Bob Bullard: supreme court’s climate change ruling places ‘uneven burdens on overburdened communities’.
Next Tory leader must have clear plan on net zero, says Alok Sharma.
Heatwaves caused by climate crisis may become regular event, says Met Office chief.
‘Dutton insurance’: crossbench MPs set joint demands on Labor’s climate bill.
What can smug Australians teach the UK about surviving a heatwave?
Europe’s medical schools to give more training on diseases linked to climate crisis.
‘Vengeful’ Trump withheld disaster aid and will do so again, ex-officials warn.
The big picture: Khashayar Javanmardi explores the decline of the Caspian Sea.
The Observer view on climate change: Hurricane Milton is a portent – but it’s not too late.
Fears for future of ski tourism as resorts adapt to thawing snow season.
Drone footage shows rare flooding in the Sahara desert.
Joe Biden says Hurricane Milton caused $50bn in damage.
Food waste and the horror of discarded pumpkins.
Dramatic images show the first floods in the Sahara in half a century.
‘It’s mindblowing’: US meteorologists face death threats as hurricane conspiracies surge.
Labour’s carbon-capture scheme will be Starmer’s white elephant: a terrible mistake costing billions.
The Guardian view on Hurricane Milton and other disasters: extreme politics is worsening extreme weather.
A visual guide to the damage caused by Hurricane Milton.
Tornadoes, mass outages and deaths: what to know about Hurricane Milton’s impact.
Juice by Tim Winton review – a beautiful story of a horrifying future.
Hurricane Milton: nearly 3.3 million without power in Florida as category 3 storm makes landfall.
Harvest in England the second worst on record because of wet weather.
Hellish heat and primal fear: Croatian firefighters on frontline of climate crisis.
‘I think, boy, I’m a part of all this’: how local heroes reforested Rio’s green heart.
Athletes warn ‘hottest Games on record’ could threaten lives at Paris Olympics.
Guardian Essential poll: Labor vulnerable to Dutton’s climate campaign as voters split on 2030 target.
Virgin Australia plane makes emergency landing.
From LED bulbs to living plants: German theatre tackles climate crisis on and off stage.
Why are Australian houses so cold, and how can we build 1.2m new ones without trashing the environment?
The Guardian view on the climate crisis and heatwaves: a killer we need to combat.
Climate 200 names nine new Coalition seats where it hopes to replicate teal wave at next election.
Drone footage shows mudslides after heavy rain in southern China.
Minns ‘really sorry’ final Vivid drone show cancelled with 20 minutes notice.
Disastrous, dark shadow, destroys our economy: five climate elders on Peter Dutton’s emissions stance.
Germany’s top climate envoy says ‘this is the critical decade’ after Dutton ditches 2030 target.
‘Paris’ is burning consensus on Australia’s climate policies – and that’s how Peter Dutton wants it.
Cold enthusiasts and dampness stans it is your time to shine. Here are some handy tips for surviving winter.
Why Dutton is restoking the climate wars: politics with Amy Remeikis.
Falling short of ambitious emissions targets isn’t failure – but rushing towards 2C of heating is.
Visitors to Greece appear ill informed about heatwave risk, warn rescuers.
Dutton’s plan to scrap 2030 emissions target ‘not helpful’, AGL executive says.
Weatherwatch: Scientists discover possible cause of Arctic ‘zombie fires’.
Are cold and wet UK summers here to stay? - podcast.
Mysteries of the cold: the snowflake expert who fears a warmer world.
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary: ‘There isn’t enough cooking oil in the world to power one day of green aviation’.
New breed of climate protesters vows to take fight to ‘cowards’ of US politics.
Ski resorts battle for a future as snow declines in climate crisis.
Tuesday briefing: Why 2023 was a watershed year for the climate crisis.
‘White Christmas’ declared as Scotland sees snow – but elsewhere it’s 12C.
The weasel words of Cop28 can be easily twisted.
The faith leaders fighting for the climate: ‘we have a moral obligation’.
The 10 biggest science stories of 2023 – chosen by scientists.
‘My job to convince them’: Steven Miles knows climate change is coming for Queensland.
Heat pumps are hot property in Europe. Does Britain have cold feet?
Survivalist gardens and hot-weather fruits among 2024 trends, RHS predicts.
‘Could be the end’: Tasmanian red handfish to be removed from wild amid marine heatwaves fears.
Ted O’Brien’s fact-free nuclear cheerleading is cover for the same old climate vandalism.
‘We are not hardcore hippies’: why our family chose a low income in order to have a richer life.
2023 was the year governments looked at the climate crisis – and decided to persecute the activists.
Britain’s roofs can be a huge resource for solar energy.
How the Guardian covered 2023, with Katharine Viner – Full Story podcast.
Changing climate casts a shadow over the future of the Panama Canal – and global trade.
Three dead and millions without power as Tropical Storm Beryl hits Texas.
US heatwave tied to four Oregon deaths as temperature records are shattered.
Blockade Australia climate activist sentenced to three months in jail over Port of Newcastle protest.
Where the wild things are: the untapped potential of our gardens, parks and balconies.
Temperatures 1.5C above pre-industrial era average for 12 months, data shows.
Ecuador court rules pollution violates rights of a river running through capital.
How AI is helping us tackle the climate crisis.
‘Every step of the way, no one cared’: Queensland pensioner says solar farm next door has left her unable to sell her property.
The week in theatre: Mnemonic; The Secret Garden; The Herds – review.
Blockade Australia plans more climate protests disrupting Newcastle trains, saying disobedience is the only option.
‘Potentially historic’ heatwave threatens more than 130 million people across US.
David Lammy faces a world in turmoil: five key concerns for foreign secretary.
Heat-related deaths in Phoenix, Arizona, have nearly doubled this year.
What’s happening with the climate crisis and heat-trapping emissions in Australia.
Greens to push Labour to ‘be braver’ on climate, sewage and cost of living.
Weatherwatch: Buckwheat, miracle crop for a future of extreme heat.
The Guardian view on Hurricane Beryl: the west can’t sit this out.
Hurricane Beryl barrels through Cayman Islands after battering Jamaica.
Can the climate survive the insatiable energy demands of the AI arms race?
Conspiracy theory on methane-cutting cow feed a ‘wake-up call’, say scientists.
‘Engine of inequality’: delegates discuss AI’s global impact at Paris summit.
Food waste and why you should take the sticker off your apple – Full Story podcast.
UK insurers paid out record £585m last year as climate breakdown intensifies.
Polar heritage sites are slipping into the sea – but can one island live forever online?
Climate activists fined over protest outside Woodside boss Meg O’Neill’s Perth home.
Charlotte O’Dwyer became the face of black summer’s terrible toll. Five years after the fires her family looks back.
Air traffic control to Sir Keir: turbulence ahead.
Promoting green growth does not make you an ‘eco-nutter’. It’s the only way forward.
Victoria’s Halls Gap survived the flames – but as tourists stay away the dark clouds remain.
Labour’s clean energy plan will not only cut emissions but lift hundreds of thousands out of fuel poverty.
Where the heart is: the artist memorialising homes lost in the LA fires.
Kew’s rescue mission: arborists head to Scotland after hundreds of trees and plants felled by Storm Éowyn.
‘Backsliding’: most countries to miss vital climate deadline as Cop30 nears.
More than 100,000 homes in England could be built in highest-risk flood zones.
Fifty shades of greywater: how reusing water at home will make your garden thrive and help the planet.
Elon Musk’s journey from climate champion to backing EV-bashing Trump.
Green campaigners fear UK to renew subsidies to Drax power station.
‘We water, rest, water’: the green belt of vegetable plots cooling a city.
Jeff Bezos fund ends support for climate group amid fears billionaires ‘bowing down’ to Trump.
Day of 40C shocks scientists as UK heat record ‘absolutely obliterated’.
Think you’re too hot? Imagine being street homeless in the UK right now.
Windows closed? Windows open? What’s the best way to keep your home cool in the heatwave?
Global heating hits home up north as it sizzles along with UK south.
We’ve reached boiling point – nobody should have to work in temperatures above 30C.
Footage shows UPS driver stumbling from heat while delivering packages in Arizona.
Britain is boiling – and the government wants to dramatically expand UK aviation.
UK reaches hottest ever temperature as 40.2C recorded at Heathrow.
XR protesters smash windows of News UK over coverage of Britain’s heatwave.
Yes, Britain had a heatwave in 1976. No, it was nothing like the crisis we’re in now.
Kemi Badenoch moves away from net zero by 2050, in double climate U-turn.
Want to save the planet? Eat protein from mushrooms and algae instead of red meat.
Tanya Plibersek pledges new environment laws to end years of ‘wilful neglect’ by Coalition.
Tuesday briefing: Why the next PM will offer net zero on climate.
Europe’s heatwave moves north as UK braces for hottest day on record.
‘Earth sends a warning’: how the papers covered the UK’s scorching heat.
Towering waves in Hawaii crash into homes, barrel through wedding venue.
What will it take for the UK to adapt to extreme heat?
Tom Tugendhat out of Tory leadership race as Sunak still leads field.
West Virginia to resume abortions after judge blocks enforcement of ban.
‘No drilling! No drilling!’: climate choir sings truth to power in Palace of Westminster.
Quest to declare Anthropocene an epoch descends into epic row.
AI likely to increase energy use and accelerate climate misinformation – report.
February was warmest on record globally, say scientists.
Tesla quits major Australian auto lobby over its ‘false claims’ about government’s clean car policy.
US regulators approve significantly scaled back climate disclosure rule.
‘We’re totally pay as you can’: the UK restaurant prioritising people and planet.
Higher temperatures force New England fishers off ice early: ‘Global warming is real’.
The Māori climate activist breaking legal barriers to bring corporate giants to court.
Ice-free summers in Arctic possible within next decade, scientists say.
Tesla accuses Australian car lobby group of making ‘false claims’ about Labor’s vehicle emissions plan.
Lord Howe island faces ‘major’ coral bleaching as ocean temperatures continue to break records.
Prisoners in Texas and Florida face biggest risk of increasingly deadly heat.
Financial toll of climate crisis hitting women harder, UN says.
On the brink: California’s luxe clifftop mansions in peril after record rain.
Three charged after climate activist Deanna ‘Violet’ Coco and others block traffic on Melbourne’s West Gate Bridge.
Satellite to ‘name and shame’ worst oil and gas methane polluters.
Campaigners get go-ahead to challenge plans for oilfield in Lincolnshire Wolds.
Fury after Exxon chief says public to blame for climate failures.
John Kerry: US committed to tackling climate crisis despite fossil fuel growth.
‘There’ll be no countryside left’: Opposition to pylons puts UK carbon targets at risk.
Utah’s Great Salt Lake rings climate alarm bells over release of 4.1m tons of carbon dioxide.
Warm Septembers lead Iceland to delay launch of autumn foods.
Summer sun in Finland? Åland isles aim to lure tourists to cooler climate.
China sees highest number of significant floods since records began.
Surrounding cities with trees may bring down urban heat.
One person killed and national guard deployed as Colorado battles wildfires.
Antarctic temperatures rise 10C above average in near record heatwave.
Double standards on Just Stop Oil protests.
Almost quarter of big fashion brands have no decarbonisation plan, report finds.
Anger mounts over environmental cost of Google datacentre in Uruguay.
Barclays chief praises Wimbledon bosses for ‘resisting’ calls to drop bank’s sponsorship.
Human remains found in burned house in Colorado as wildfires torch US west.
Extreme ‘heat dome’ hitting Olympics ‘impossible’ without global heating.
As wildfires rage, what is the smoke doing to our health and bodies?
From Scotland to Malawi: climate survivors are rebuilding with world first loss and damage fund.
Largest wildfire in US grows to cover area bigger than Los Angeles.
‘Apocalyptic’ floods in Vermont destroy homes as two dozen rescued by boat.
Air New Zealand is first major airline to scrap 2030 emissions target.
Russia’s war with Ukraine accelerating global climate emergency, report shows.
The Guardian view on Europe’s imperilled green deal: time to outflank the radical right.
Swiss lawmakers reject climate ruling in favour of female climate elders.
Southern Florida sees record-breaking storms with up to 8in of rainfall.
Anthony Albanese on climate change, Gaza and China – Full Story podcast.
Dutton’s surprise climate policy proves he ‘can’t be taken seriously’, Albanese says.
Peter Dutton has reignited Australia’s climate wars. We factcheck the major claims.
Acropolis closed during hottest hours in Greece’s earliest heatwave on record.
Tell us: are you making a change to your summer holidays?
Global heating will increase risk of parasite outbreaks, say South West Water owners.
Azerbaijan accused of media crackdown before hosting Cop29.
Peter Dutton’s energy policy is a political death wish – and utterly irresponsible in the face of the climate emergency.
How does extreme heat affect the body and what can you do about it?
Harmful gases destroying ozone layer falling faster than expected, study finds.
Australia’s power and gas companies want Coalition to retain Labor’s 2030 climate target.
PM says voters don’t want another climate election.
Coalition won’t reveal 2030 emissions target unless it wins election, Peter Dutton says.
'Worse than Scott Morrison’: Albanese on Dutton's climate 2030 target renege.
Women’s football holds immense potential as a lever for climate action.
Dutton’s French exit: they say all is fair in love and climate wars.
‘My escape is going north’: heatwaves begin to drive tourists in Europe to cool climes.
Obsession with growth is enriching elites and killing the planet. We need an economy based on human rights.
Caroline Lucas on climate, culture wars, and 14 years as the only Green MP - podcast.
Hurricane Beryl: Caribbean leader calls out rich countries for climate failures as ‘horrendous’ storm makes landfall.
Labour will take global lead on climate action, Ed Miliband vows.
North Sea oil decline: ‘We can’t have a repeat of what happened to 80s miners’.
Earth is dying, you say? Whatever. Let’s build a Mars rocket!.
At least 30 Reform candidates have cast doubt on human-induced global heating.
‘We can’t let the animals die’: drought leaves Sicilian farmers facing uncertain future.
I saw first-hand just how much fracking destroys the earth.
‘War zone stuff’: researchers highlight unequal impact of natural disasters on women.
‘It’s not beautiful, but you can still eat it’: climate crisis leads to more wonky vegetables in Netherlands.
AI drive brings Microsoft’s ‘green moonshot’ down to earth in west London.
Caroline Lucas: Labour must pursue social justice while tackling climate crisis.
By reflecting a world in crisis, art can be a powerful part of the climate solution.
Journalists refused entry to Azerbaijan energy conference ahead of Cop29.
Richard Tice accused of hypocrisy over firm’s embrace of green tech.
The vanishing ozone layer – archive, 1974.
Sinkhole appears in soccer field above Illinois mine: ‘Out of a movie’.
Labor’s climate bill is mostly symbolic - the big questions are about what comes next.
Greens push for legal ‘climate trigger’ on new projects as industry calls for policy certainty.
Our energy market is anti-competitive.
This heatwave is a reminder that grass lawns are terrible for the environment.
Heatwaves put classic Alpine hiking routes off-limits.
Lake Mead: shrinking waters uncover buried secrets and grisly finds.
‘People are worried it will happen again’: the English village whose water ran out.
Tory MP urged to quit job as adviser to ‘climate denier’ US fossil fuel firm.
Act now on water or face emergency queues on the streets, UK warned.
As my son choked on bushfire smoke it was clear our most vulnerable are feeling our climate negligence.
How scientists are working for greater inclusion of Indigenous knowledge.
Tuvalu’s beach volleyball team take stage for nation hit by climate crisis.
‘Soon the world will be unrecognisable’: is it still possible to prevent total climate meltdown?
‘Wake-up call’ for climate-sceptic Czechs as blaze devastates national park.
Weather tracker: Mediterranean Sea hit by major marine heatwave.
The Earth’s distress is evident. To care for her, Australians need to adopt First Nations values.
Drake defends his short private jet flights – by saying plane was empty.
Disposable barbecues must be banned in England, says fire chief.
EPA: game not over, says environmental agency leader after supreme court blow.
UK floods – and deaths – will keep rising without proper defences and conservation.
Hotter, drier air in Europe ‘causing poor crops and greater wildfire risk’.
Starmer says Labour will ‘meet fire with fire’ if Tories resort to dirty tactics during election.
California snowpack lowest in decade despite hope with December storms.
Germany’s emissions hit 70-year low as it reduces reliance on coal.
UK government admits Rosebank oil will not be kept in UK to boost energy security.
Not the End of the World by Hannah Ritchie review – an optimist’s guide to the climate crisis.
Is 2024 going to be the first full year to breach 1.5C of warming?
Revisited: Weight of the world, the climate scientists who hold out hope.
My generation sees an Australia in decline. With bold housing reform and sensible climate action, Liberals can seize the agenda.
Weight of the world revisited: the climate scientists who copped it.
Beaver ponds may exacerbate warming in Arctic, scientists say.
Climate crisis: 2023 was UK’s second-hottest year on record.
‘You can be happy in prison’: climate protester reflects on punishment.
Hannah Ritchie: ‘Doomsday predictions are a dream for climate deniers’.
I thought most of us were going to die from the climate crisis. I was wrong.
‘This is a real look into our lives’: the Maasai women photographing their people.
Revisited: Weight of the world – the climate scientists who saw the crisis coming.
What are the key issues in the 2024 US election?
My grandmother’s walnut tree didn’t survive fires and floods – but she left us a recipe for hope.
From drones to genomics, science can help fight extinction: that work must begin at Cop16.
Smoke pollution from wildfires may be killing an extra 12,000 people a year, new research suggests.
‘I’m not voting for either’: fracking’s return stirs fury in Pennsylvania town whose water turned toxic.
With her protest before the king, Lidia Thorpe bursts the warm bubble of nostalgia around the royal visit.
Humanity is on the verge of ‘shattering Earth’s natural limits’, say experts in biodiversity warning.
Degrowth needs to solve its image problem for the sake of the planet.
Cop16: Colombia prepares to host ‘decisive’ summit on biodiversity.
UK facing calls at Commonwealth summit to pay billons for role in climate crisis.
Anti-fossil fuel comic that went viral in France arrives in UK.
Hundreds evacuated in Oakland after California brush fire grows out of control.
Kamala Harris urged to flesh out climate plan amid warnings about Trump.
Think your job is stressful? Spare a thought for those who can see what’s coming next.
World Without End review by Jean-Marc Jancovici and Christophe Blain – a graphic view of the climate crisis.
Overwhelming majority of young Americans worry about climate crisis.
Why hurricane survivors in Louisiana still believe in Donald Trump.
New York officials call for big oil to be prosecuted for fueling climate disasters.
Juice by Tim Winton review – life after the apocalypse.
‘It’s shameful and I won’t pay it’: flood-hit Italians rage against insurance call.
Global water crisis leaves half of world food production at risk in next 25 years.
This is the year of the climate election. Journalists should cover it that way.
Joe Biden just did the rarest thing in US politics: he stood up to the oil industry.
‘A powerful message through song’: the UK’s Climate Choir Movement is growing.
Federal government approval the final hurdle for mega Queensland coalmine.
World ‘not prepared’ for climate disasters after warmest ever January.
Taylor Swift threatens legal action against student tracking her private jet.
After 38 attacks on art, climate protesters have fallen into big oil’s trap – it’s time to change tack.
Ugandan climate activists face charges after a month in maximum security jail.
EU lays out plan to cut greenhouse emissions by 90% by 2040.
‘In a word, horrific’: Trump’s extreme anti-environment blueprint.
California flooding: how atmospheric rivers led to a state of emergency.
Hurricanes becoming so strong that new category needed, study says.
Will other cities copy Paris decision to hike parking charges for SUVs?
Ancient sea sponges at centre of controversial claim world has already warmed by 1.7C.
Is AI really the biggest threat when our world is guided more by human stupidity?
Minister consulted BP over incentives to maximise oil production, FoI reveals.
We must act on Ethiopia food crisis, says UK minister.
California battered by hurricane-force winds and heavy rain.
‘Life-threatening’ storm system batters California, with flooding and high winds.
Mathieu Flamini: ‘Football needs to stand up for climate change’.
‘Hypocritical’ European politicians weaken climate policies amid farmer protests.
‘Grossly irresponsible’: UK hands out 24 new North Sea oil and gas licences.
‘Literally off the charts’: global coral reef heat stress monitor forced to add new alerts as temperatures rise.
What is Labour’s £28bn green plan – and could it be shelved?
Extraction of raw materials to rise by 60% by 2060, says UN report.
Australia’s black summer bushfires ripped billions from the tourism industry. Is global warming making the cost of natural disasters worse?
Low-carbon milk to AI irrigation: tech startups powering Latin America’s green revolution.
UK must act urgently to meet climate commitments, says watchdog.
Big cars are a big problem for our roads and our planet.
How a Black Miami neighborhood became ‘ground zero for climate gentrification’.
Move to sustainable food systems could bring $10tn benefits a year, study finds.
Fears back-to-back cyclones may have damaged Great Barrier Reef.
How rice hidden by a woman fleeing slavery in the 1700s could help her descendants.
David Pocock condemns Australia’s fossil fuel projects as an ‘existential threat’ to Pacific neighbours.
Climate scientist Mark Maslin: ‘We have all the technology we need to move to a cleaner, renewable world’.
Greta Thunberg joins protest against expansion of Hampshire airport.
Race against time to unlock secrets of Erebus shipwreck and doomed Arctic expedition.
Constant clouds over US Great Lakes area could hurt residents’ mental health.
Seeing family v helping the planet: how to decide whether to fly.
What does the US-China row mean for climate change?
Democrats secure breakthrough with Kyrsten Sinema on climate bill.
I sold the rights to my Groove Armada songs to buy a farm – now I hope to revolutionise food production.
It’s time to ban private jets – or at least tax them to the ground.
London mayor urged to halt Silvertown tunnel scheme at 11th hour.
California’s McKinney fire leaves trail of destruction.
Weatherwatch: earlier harvests show UK’s climate is changing.
Australia’s climate change targets will become law. What happens now?
Floods, storms and heatwaves are a direct product of the climate crisis – that’s a fact, so where is the action?
Revealed: how climate breakdown is supercharging toll of extreme weather.
Penny Wong warns against ‘miscalculation’ as China-Taiwan tensions escalate.
Twelve angry children: young jurors call adults to account for climate crisis in The Trials.
Scorched Britain: the July heatwave in pictures.
Fronds reunited: an Isle of Wight trip to restore a priceless ecosystem.
Weatherwatch: why summer nights are getting hotter.
Albanese declares Coalition ‘stuck in time’ after Labor’s climate bill passes lower house.
John Howard’s climate doubts reveal more about conservative identity politics than anything else.
Record coral cover on parts of Great Barrier Reef, but global heating could jeopardise recovery.
Energy firms' record profits during energy crisis 'immoral', says UN secretary general.
Top US prosecutor quits over pressure to investigate Biden climate spending.
Early warning system for climate tipping points given £81m kickstart.
‘The path forward is clear’: how Trump taking office has ‘turbocharged’ climate accountability efforts.
There are many ways Trump could trigger a global collapse. Here’s how to survive if that happens.
Fossil fuel industry accused of seeking special treatment over oilfield emissions.
Footage shows coral bleaching at Western Australia's Ningaloo Reef .
Large areas of WA’s Ningaloo corals could die in ‘weeks ahead’ after widespread bleaching documented.
US energy secretary says Australia should ‘get in the game of supplying uranium’.
Elegy, Southwest by Madeleine Watts review – powerful, poignant and suffused with millennial dread.
Pepper-sprayed activist posed no threat to Victoria police officer who later said ‘they needed that’, court hears.
Brazil asks UN to ditch proposed levy on global shipping.
In pictures: communities rebuild after devastation wreaked by Hurricane Helene.
‘Everything we had floated away’: Hurricane Helene survivors help each other as disinformation swirls.
DeSantis urged to declare emergency over toxic red tide algae off Florida coast.
More than 80% of new California properties are in high fire-risk areas.
Extreme weather is our new reality. We must accept it and begin planning.
Extreme weather expected to cause food price volatility in 2025 after cost of cocoa and coffee doubles.
Storm-fueled mud submerges roads in California town hit by LA wildfires.
Buying or building a home in Australia? Here are the energy efficiency features worth paying for.
What are farmers in the EU required to do to protect the environment?
Edinburgh activists target SUVs in solidarity with Spain’s flood victims.
Why did so many die in Spain? Because Europe still hasn’t accepted the realities of extreme weather.
Trump donor fined for pollution leads a fight to end methane emission penalties.
Spain floods: searchers scour car parks and malls amid fears death toll will rise.
Weather tracker: Zero rain and unseasonable heat cause ‘flash droughts’ in US.
‘Two sides of the same coin’: governments stress links between climate and nature collapse.
Mud and insults thrown as Spanish king and PM visit flood-hit town.
Why geography lessons are the key to climate awareness.
Where do Harris and Trump stand on the key election issues?
Mud flung at Spain's king as clean-up and search efforts continue in flood aftermath.
Drone footage shows scale of devastation caused by Spain floods.
‘We didn’t realise how hard it is’: small farmers in Europe struggle to get by.
Spain floods: 10,000 troops and police drafted in to deal with disaster.
Chris Bowen on Trump, science and coal: ‘We’re living climate change. What we’re trying to do is avoid the worst of it’.
Spain’s apocalyptic floods show two undeniable truths: the climate crisis is getting worse and Big Oil is killing us.
The Guardian view on climate-linked disasters: Spain’s tragedy will not be the last.
What can fossil fuel executives do to forget the climate crisis?
Finland exports snow-saving mats to ski resorts hit by climate crisis.
German climate minister says speed of carbon cuts needs to be trebled.
We study ocean temperatures. The Earth just broke a heat increase record.
Hottest ocean temperatures in history recorded last year.
Is the world’s most important glacier on the brink of collapse?.
US hit by 20 separate billion-dollar climate disasters in 2021, Noaa report says.
Climate crisis: last seven years the hottest on record, 2021 data shows.
We can’t solve the climate crisis with a broken democracy.
US emissions roared back last year after pandemic drop, figures show.
Global heating could lead to an increase in kidney stone disease, study finds.
Here’s how to solve the UK energy crisis for the long term – store more power.
Only a culture change can end this state of climate inaction.
More than £760,000 raised for Guardian and Observer charity appeal.
Brexit decision left UK firms paying 10% more than EU rivals for emissions.
Charity appeal for climate justice: your donation will make a difference.
‘My father will go down like the captain of the Titanic’: life on the Pacific’s disappearing islands.
Obese? Need nanny’s help? Don’t rely on the Tories, baffled by today’s world.
Why the climate-wrecking craze for crypto art really is beyond satire.
‘Local is better’: battered Haiti looks to empower peasants to fight climate crisis.
Don’t Look Up: four climate experts on the polarising disaster film.
‘We can’t ignore reality’: Colorado fires highlight urgency of US climate legislation.
Southern California braces for vicious winds as new fires break out in region.
‘Catastrophic’: Great Barrier Reef hit by its most widespread coral bleaching, study finds.
A third of the Arctic’s vast carbon sink now a source of emissions, study reveals.
‘We ask to be recognised’: small fishers claim €12bn EU fund favours big players.
What executive orders did Trump sign on day one?
Trump returns to White House and unleashes barrage of executive orders.
Trump revokes Biden order that had set 50% electric vehicles target for 2030.
Trump signs order to withdraw US from Paris climate agreement for second time.
Factchecking Trump’s inauguration speech, from inflation to healthcare.
The Guardian view on Donald Trump’s inauguration: fear, division and the facade of national populism.
Licensed release of beavers has many benefits.
The LA fires left a beloved school in ashes. Now, parents are rallying to restart their ‘community’.
As Trump is inaugurated, activists ask: is there any point in mass protest?
Trump threatens a global trade war. Europe must unleash a radical alternative.
Trump is back! How do we prepare for life under a brutal regime of AI climate crypto madness?!.
The Guardian view on development’s paradox: the rich benefit more than the poor.
‘Net zero hero’ myth unfairly shifts burden of solving climate crisis on to individuals, study finds.
‘It’s an absolute travesty’: fears for border wildlife as Trump takes office.
The perfect storm: why did LA’s wildfires explode out of control?
Fires, floods and food security: how climate change became a local issue this election.
Endurance shipwreck threatened by global heating, says marine archaeologist.
Bill Gates: ‘Vaccines are a miracle. It’s mind-blowing somebody could say the opposite’.
Caesar’s favourite herb was the Viagra of ancient Rome. Until climate change killed it off.
I’m excited by the teal independents – but where’s the racial and ethnic diversity?
Poisoned legacy: why the future of power can’t be nuclear.
‘Fun in the sun’ photos are a dangerous distraction from the reality of climate breakdown.
‘This is about survival’: will Cop27 bring action on Glasgow climate pact?
Glorious beach summers are part of the Australian imagination. My children are making different memories.
‘Everything was orange’: US wildfires burning at furious pace early this year.
Joy for environmentalists as California blocks bid for $1.4bn desalination plant.
South Africa’s April floods made twice as likely by climate crisis, scientists say.
Hundreds escape flood waters in Queensland as state lashed by severe thunderstorms.
We need optimism – but Disneyfied climate predictions are just dangerous.
New Mexico wildfire rampages on as fresh blaze engulfs California mansions.
The Guardian view on carbon bombs: governments must say no.
Kate Grenville: I used to be passive on climate change. A Helen Garner fan pushed me to act.
GB News chairman has history of dismissing threat of climate crisis.
An election guide: factchecking Morrison and Albanese on climate claims.
I used to take cassava for granted – but it could help to wean the world off wheat.
Artist captures the impact of climate crisis over 150 years on Mont Blanc.
The summer food went weird: searing heat reshapes US food production.
My epic three-day trip from London to Morocco by train and ferry.
‘Walking billboard’ for Woodside: parents want end to fossil fuel company sponsorship of WA Nippers.
UK could quit ‘climate-wrecking’ treaty, minister announces.
Himalayan avalanches are increasing risk for climbers in warming climate.
A visual guide to Greece’s deadly wildfires.
Australia records warmest winter caused by global heating and sunny conditions.
Parks and gardens hold key to cooling overheated cities.
The people of Ecuador just made climate justice history. The world can follow.
Hurricane Idalia could become 2023’s costliest climate disaster for the US.
Hurricane Idalia leaves trail of destruction and flooding in its wake in Florida.
Australia headed for hot and dry spring after unseasonably warm winter.
A vintage butterfly summer in Britain – what’s going on?
Georgia declares state of emergency as severe flooding and storm surges hit south-eastern US.
Hurricane Idalia batters south-eastern US causing storm surges and power outages.
Australia’s greenhouse emissions are a national disgrace that are destroying the planet and costing households.
Adam Bandt urges Australians to ‘embrace’ civil disobedience and join climate protests.
UK must label showers and toilets to cut water usage, experts say.
Yellowknife wildfire: traffic clogs road out of town as residents race to evacuate.
Ministers criticised for scrapping new food waste laws for England.
How killing vultures endangers humans.
Spain battles ‘out of control’ wildfire on Tenerife.
Warm July breaks dozens of longstanding Australian temperature records.
UN climate summit host UAE failed to report methane emissions to UN.
Why were the wildfires in Hawaii so deadly?
Miniaturised shows tackle big problems at the Edinburgh festival.
Biden says landmark climate bill is winning against special interests.
The Guardian view on protecting corals: what lies beneath matters too.
Tropical storms killing more Americans as climate crisis deepens, study finds.
Wildfire burns through hundreds of acres of forest on Tenerife.
Days numbered for skiers this winter as Australia’s alpine resorts dry up.
‘We are facing dependence on China’: EU battles to support green industry.
National cabinet announces housing plan.
Take the high road: the man who visited every country in the world – without boarding a plane.
Hawaii fires: Maui residents and officials implore tourists to stay away.
Urgent action needed to reduce air pollution.
Alarm at exodus of climate voices on Twitter after Musk takeover.
Biden’s climate bill leaves workers behind in shift to electric cars, union says.
Pumping sewage into the sea has long been a Sydney thing – and even $32bn won’t change that.
Avoid AI and catch a bus: Guardian readers share their top climate goals for 2025.
New technology could make fridges cheaper and more eco-friendly.
How US states are leading the climate fight – despite Trump’s rollbacks.
Hundreds protest in London as jailed climate activists’ appeals are heard.
‘Like dropping a bomb’: why is clean energy leader Uruguay ramping up the search for oil?
‘The world order could start to evolve from the Arctic’: Trump, thin ice and the fight for the Northwest Passage.
In the most untouched, pristine parts of the Amazon, birds are dying. Scientists may finally know why.
Fury over Reeves’ climate climbdown – Politics Weekly UK.
Stop asking Californians when they will leave the state.
Climate activists ‘did what they did out of sacrifice’, appeal court told.
Five Lines review – mini dystopia projects maximum climate catastrophe.
Heathrow third runway: a saga of promises, protest and U-turns.
Weatherwatch: melting permafrost threatens landscapes and lives in Arctic regions.
In this government’s hands, big ideas always end up looking small. Just ask Ed Miliband.
Green transition should benefit ordinary Londoners, says deputy mayor.
Climate triple whammy boosted risk of LA fires, study shows.
Australians who get most of their news from commercial media more likely to believe in climate conspiracy, study finds.
‘Overwhelming’: what happens to 50,000lb of extra LA wildfire clothing donations?
Expert panel calls for urgent rethink on Great Barrier Reef management amid ‘unremitting’ climate crisis.
Red admiral butterfly population soars 400% in UK as winters warm.
UK escaped the heat this year but must adapt faster to global heating.
Independent MP Monique Ryan expresses 'distress and disgust' at CO2 sea dumping bill.
Activist says Woodside CEO’s safety was never under threat by protest at her Perth home.
Rishi Sunak’s anti-green gamble.
Teal MPs criticise CO2 sea dumping bill as ‘greenwashing’ fossil fuel industry.
The world likely just had its hottest month on record. What a time to be a climate science denier.
California’s largest wildfire of the year threatens fragile desert ecosystem.
Amazon deforestation falls over 60% compared with last July, says Brazilian minister.
Chinese firefighter ‘dies heroic death’ as Beijing reports heaviest rain in 140 years.
Aftermath of Typhoon Doksuri brought Beijing floods, meteorologists explain.
The teenager and senator trying to change climate laws – Full Story podcast.
Climate crisis: Australia must ready for ‘devastating’ regional disruption, MPs told.
Greek PM offers tourists affected by wildfires a free stay in Rhodes next year.
At least 60 people apply to head UK government climate crisis advisory body.
Labor not ruling out raising income-free area for jobseeker.
It’s so sunny and warm! Is this great or utterly terrifying?
Australia is not being ‘singled out’ by Unesco’s in-danger recommendation for the Great Barrier Reef.
Rishi Sunak risks alienating the public by trying to please newspapers.
Fine weather for Britain’s crickets – especially the long-winged conehead.
Australia’s export of fossil fuels like selling drugs to ‘maintain’ lifestyle, former top fire chief says.
Seven dead as severe storms trigger flooding in Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria.
Climate politics is more complex and urgent than ever – is the IPCC still fit for purpose?
Sautéed seaweed and amaranth pancakes: how to cook three climate-friendly superfoods.
How to use less water: 15 essential tips – from beef burgers to megabutts to cutting back on clothes.
Australia has highest per capita CO2 emissions from coal in G20, analysis finds.
Climate crisis could contribute to a global food shortage by 2050, US special envoy on food security warns.
Subways and streets submerged as Spain hit by record rainfall.
Tory tussles over energy bill put progress on net zero at risk.
Ministers to announce moves aiming to allow building of onshore wind turbines.
African leaders at odds over climate plans as crucial Nairobi summit opens.
Hundreds of academics call for 100% plant-based meals at UK universities.
Has the US learned to cope with extreme heat? Next summer could be even hotter.
Train versus plane: with many domestic flights banned in France, we test its rail network.
Climate crisis poses greatest risk to people with respiratory illnesses, experts warn.
US clean energy drive fuels shortage of engineers in Australia.
Readers reply: what would happen to Earth if it were to cool, rather than heat, by 1.5C?
‘There’s a very real danger here’: AOC on 2024, the climate crisis and ‘selling out’.
Major Australian ski resort Perisher closes some lifts for season ‘ahead of schedule’ due to lack of snow.
Rewilding, or just a greenwashed land grab? It all depends on who benefits.
Beekeepers and communists: how environmentalists started a global conversation.
Consultant who ditched Shell: ‘take a look at yourselves in the mirror’.
How Australia’s electoral system allowed voters to finally impose a ceasefire in the climate wars.
Voters often invest their hopes in a new government, but the atmosphere feels more like relief.
The dust won’t settle on our current crises.
The Guardian view on Australia’s election: Labor needs to go bigger on climate.
One of UK’s rarest corals set to expand its range as climate change warms seas.
Spain and Morocco feel the heat as unseasonal snow falls on Colorado.
German judges visit Peru glacial lake in unprecedented climate crisis lawsuit.
They once worked for big oil’s enablers. Now they refuse to be complicit.
There could still be time to fix climate – but not with UK’s nuclear plans.
How the climate crisis upturned Australian politics.
‘Highly implausible’ that new Galilee Basin coalmines would be profitable, study finds.
People in US and UK face huge financial hit if fossil fuels lose value, study shows.
Sunak’s windfall tax is a ‘sticking plaster’, say climate campaigners.
Penny Wong tells Pacific nations ‘we have heard you’ as Australia and China battle for influence.
Major New Zealand salmon producer shuts farms as warming waters cause mass die-offs.
New Coalition MP was founding member of club promoting climate science denial.
A sweet spot on the banks of the Thames.
The facts about a planet facing climate disaster are clear. Why won’t this Labour government face them?
Ash dieback experts identify shoots of hope for Britain’s threatened trees.
University bans on big oil firms at recruitment fairs rise by 30%.
CO2 emissions from new North Sea drilling sites would match 30 years’ worth from UK households.
‘We’re gobsmacked’: climate groups angered by Labor’s ‘no new coalmines’ claim.
Mayotte resident confronts Macron over Cyclone Chido response.
Cyclone Chido: locals demand more help from Macron on visit to Mayotte.
Biden declares tougher 2035 emissions targets weeks before Trump return.
Albanese government approves four coalmine expansions as Greens condemn ‘despicable’ move.
Montana supreme court upholds right to ‘stable climate system’ for youngsters.
Don’t be fooled. Copenhagen is not that green.
Can everyone eat for the planet? I shopped at Dollar Store for a week to find out.
People in the US: how do you eat a climate-friendly diet on a budget?
Pakistan and Bahamas join push for global pact to phase out fossil fuels.
And what do you want from Santa this Christmas?
Biden administration warns natural gas expansion would drive up domestic costs.
No glue, chains or locks: Victoria’s antisemitism crackdown a smokescreen to target climate protesters, critics say.
Peter Dutton’s nuclear fantasy – Full Story podcast.
More than 6m homes at risk of flooding in England, says Environment Agency.
Mayotte cyclone: health services in ruins as rescuers race to reach survivors.
Climate limit of 1.5C close to being broken, scientists warn.
Climate crisis: what lessons can we learn from the last great cooling-off period?
A story of 90,000 trees: how Kenya’s Kipsigis brought a forest back to life.
Why we confronted Priti Patel about her inhumane ‘Rwanda plan’ at a Tory dinner.
Readers reply: what is the single most effective thing I could do to reduce my carbon footprint?
How worried should we really be about ‘insectageddon’?
Greenhouse effect: Palms and lavender replace hollyhocks in British gardens.
Endangered tree seedlings planted in secret locations on NSW north coast.
Climate hunger striker expresses shock at being ignored by ministers.
‘Nature doesn’t fix itself fast’: Greenland weighs up economy v climate crisis.
Filipino inquiry finds big polluters ‘morally and legally liable’ for climate damage.
Louisiana legislator pushes bills benefiting the oil and gas industry — and her husband.
God’s own gardens: why churchyards are some of our wildest nature sites.
Independents slam ‘dirty tactic’, reporting fake campaign signs; 30 Covid deaths.
Football must do more to tackle climate change: this is how clubs and fans can help.
Firefighters slow advance of New Mexico blaze as Biden declares disaster.
Coalition climate target consistent with more than 3C global heating, research says.
Nasa climate research scientist awarded World Food prize.
Muck in to help nesting birds during UK heatwave, says RSPB.
Hundreds of Iraqis hospitalised as thick sandstorm blankets country.
‘We’ve been abandoned’: the long road to recovery for black summer bushfire survivors.
Can fake whale poo experiment net Australian scientists a share of Elon Musk’s US$100m climate prize?
At last I have good news on the climate crisis: all of us really can do something about it.
Climate change is happening now: Meet the people on the front lines.
‘We need a new commons’: how city life can offer us the vital power of connection.
Court rules Morrison government grant to develop gas field in Beetaloo Basin invalid.
Why the collapse of Biden’s Build Back Better would be a major blow to the climate fight.
Cleanup cost of Heathrow third runway doubles to £100bn, MPs told.
The crisis unfolding in America’s Christmas tree capital.
Follow the green leader: why everyone from Prince William to Jeff Bezos is looking to Costa Rica.
The Guardian view: help us to help those on the climate frontline.
Campaigners lose court action over lawfulness of UK climate policies.
By ditching landmark climate legislation, America makes the world unsafe.
Guardian and Observer charity appeal raises over £350,000.
Australian government’s plan to protect Great Barrier Reef falls short, environment groups say.
Environment stories you might have missed in 2021.
Covid will not be our last global health crisis – we need a long-term plan.
Climate lawyer loses supreme court appeal over Heathrow leak.
New head of Unesco world heritage centre wants to put Africa on the map.
Superyachts and private jets: the carbon impact of the ‘polluter elite’.
Climate activists to fight conspiracy charges over protest outside home of Woodside boss.
The climate science is in. So why are the climate scientists down and out?
UK to build new satellite to monitor climate crisis and natural disasters.
Just Stop Oil protesters’ jail terms potentially breach international law, UN expert says.
Restaurants, pets and holidays: how UK’s well-off have outsize carbon footprints.
Revealed: the huge climate impact of the middle classes.
World facing ‘hellish’ 3C of climate heating, UN warns before Cop28.
Weight of the world part 1: the climate scientists who saw the crisis coming – Full Story podcast.
'Frustrating as hell': Graeme Pearman’s climate research should have warned the world.
‘Where did I go wrong?’ The scientist who tried to raise the climate alarm.
If I was feeling hopeless about the climate, what of the scientists? So I asked them.
Billionaires are out of touch and much too powerful. The planet is in trouble.
WA climate activist to appeal against conviction for denying police access to mobile and laptop.
National Trust calls on UK government to improve climate resilience.
‘There are no crops to celebrate’: climate crisis wipes out a way of life in Taiwan’s mountains.
Elon Musk was once an environmental hero: is he still a rare green billionaire?
Twelve billionaires’ climate emissions outpollute 2.1m homes, analysis finds.
Tax corporate polluters and rich to help tackle climate crisis, Jeremy Hunt told.
The great carbon divide.
Northern Ireland could become ‘dirty corner of Europe’, say campaigners.
How Exxon is using an unusual law to intimidate critics over its climate denial.
‘We live and die by it’: climate crisis threatens Bangladesh’s Sundarbans.
Sadiq Khan proposes journey charge for motorists in London.
Climate crisis could wipe 1% a year off UK economy by 2045, say ministers.
Extinction Rebellion donor leads world’s top-performing hedge fund.
Guardian and Observer climate justice appeal stays open as £1m target nears.
The Davos razzmatazz is gone, but the issues are more urgent than ever.
‘You need to help yourself’: the wealthy LA town that started its own firefighting crew.
Finding a future that is sustainable for everyone on our planet.
Love meat too much for Veganuary? Try Regenuary instead.
Global heating linked to early birth and damage to babies’ health, scientists find.
Thank you for giving generously to the Guardian and Observer charity appeal.
Why did Alaskan officials coin the term ‘icemageddon’?
‘Another hellish day’: South America sizzles in record summer temperatures.
La Niña doesn’t give the government a free pass on climate impacts.
The Guardian view on The Green Planet: verdant and necessary.
The BBC’s flat Earth policy should be roundly condemned.
Getting sterilised to save the planet is a sad but understandable choice.
Extinction Rebellion activists cleared over London rush hour disruption.
I’m switching off from automated greetings.
Sunak’s private jet to Scotland may have breached ministerial code, says Labour.
Rish! gaslights the UK with North Sea plan while the world burns.
Rishi Sunak’s contempt for the climate shows us just how rightwing he really is.
Rishi Sunak announces new oil and gas licences despite outcry.
Unesco recommends against Great Barrier Reef ‘in danger’ listing but Australia warned more action needed.
Sunak’s plan for carbon capture is good news: he shouldn’t muddy it with party politics.
Sailing coaches help rescue more than 130 people stranded by Greece wildfires.
New North Sea oil and gas licences will send ‘wrecking ball’ through climate commitments.
Man rescued from car swept into river as Typhoon Doksuri hits China.
Georgia resident dies from rare ‘brain-eating amoeba’.
Sunak’s new oil and gas licences are ‘moral and economic madness’.
Big business lobbies against heat protections for workers as US boils.
UK farmer donated £100k so Amazon Indigenous meeting could take place.
Wildfires cross US border into Canada triggering evacuation order.
The lesson from the Greece wildfires? The climate crisis is coming for us all.
Pocock seeks to impose duty of care on Australian government over climate harm.
We bailed out the banks but we’re not prepared to bail out the planet.
Emergency viewing: 15 must-see films about the climate crisis.
Radical ways to fix the Earth: are they magic bullets or just band-aids?
‘They’re stuck’: Cape Cod seeing more whale, turtle and dolphin strandings.
‘We need dramatic social and technological changes’: is societal collapse inevitable?
Here are 12 climate resolutions to take with you into the new year.
Climate crisis exposed people to extra six weeks of dangerous heat in 2024.
California residents urged to avoid ocean as high surf pounds coastline.
Chemtrail conspiracy theories: why RFK Jr is watching the skies.
They lived through the ice age. Can the mighty musk ox survive the heat?
Researchers race to climate-proof Christmas tree production: ‘We’re up to the task’.
Average Briton causes 23 times more CO2 on Christmas Day, study reveals.
Single-use plastic will soon be banned in Nigeria – but is the country ready?
‘We need to be prepared’: China adapts to era of extreme flooding.
We need to ditch plastic lids for the planet.
My sewing group makes reusable produce bags - cutting back on plastic and textile waste.
How to teach climate change so 15-year-olds can act.
Arctic tundra changes are a dire warning for us all.
Elderly activist to spend Christmas in prison because tag does not fit.
Record number of protesters will be in UK prisons this Christmas.
The Tories attacking the UK’s net zero plans.
Double trouble with insulation in older homes.
The early closure of Australia’s biggest coal plant caught Angus Taylor by surprise – but it shouldn’t have.
‘Loading the dice’: climate crisis could increase southern California wildfires.
Hurricane Lizards and Plastic Squid by Thor Hanson review – how nature is adapting to climate change.
Harmful subsidies: why is the world still funding the destruction of nature?
Guidance on political impartiality in English classrooms ‘confusing’ say teachers’ unions.
World spends $1.8tn a year on subsidies that harm environment, study finds.
News Corp claims coal and gas moratorium would be a revenue ‘black hole’. How much would it really cost?
How hot will the planet get? Public opinion is key factor, finds study.
Oil firms’ climate claims are greenwashing, study concludes.
Land clearing in NSW tripled over past decade, State of the Environment 2021 report reveals.
Constituents set up ‘Steve Baker Watch’ over MP’s climate stance.
Prepare for mass migration to cities in climate crisis, UK mayors warn.
Yale, Stanford and MIT’s fossil fuel investments are illegal, students say.
Tory MPs fear that net zero is hurting poor people. Ignore their crocodile tears.
US west ‘megadrought’ is worst in at least 1,200 years, new study says.
New North Sea oil and gas licences ‘incompatible with UK climate goals’.
Private equity’s dirty dozen: the 12 US firms funding dirty energy projects.
Flourishing plants show warming Antarctica undergoing ‘major change’.
EU climate chief: China must help fund rescue of poorer nations hit by disaster.
Cop28: Australia to bring evidence it can meet 2030 climate target but pressure builds over fossil fuels.
How the climate credentials of Australia’s big banks stack up.
The week in audio: Lights Out: Dust; The Bakersfield Three; Heirs of Enslavement – review.
Frequent flyers are rewarded for polluting. Let them pay the full price.
From carbon capture to King Charles: what to look out for at Cop28.
King’s estate to transfer £100m into ethical funds after bona vacantia revelations.
Newcastle port blockade: paddling activists take part in one of the biggest climate protests in Australia’s history.
Canada oil and gas firms to drill 8% more wells next year as emissions target slips.
World stands on frontline of disaster at Cop28, says UN climate chief.
The Guardian view on the carbon divide: climate policies must target the private jet set.
The scientist who was branded alarmist for exposing the fate of coral reefs.
Overseas over seas: how hard is it to travel internationally from Australia without flying?
Ove Hoegh-Guldberg received death threats for his work. He kept fighting anyway.
Chris Bowen’s bold and sudden movement on climate sent the Coalition clutching at its pearls.
Actors and academics criticise UK over climate ‘madness’ and limits on protest.
CO2 readings from Mauna Loa show failure to combat climate change.
New Zealand’s slapdash new government has no vision – only a plan to take us backwards.
Conservation groups challenge Labor over ‘lack of urgency’ on environment laws.
NSW approves Morrison government’s $600m Kurri Kurri gas-fired power plant.
2021: when the link between the climate and biodiversity crises became clear.
As the Coalition and Labor inch closer on emissions, are Australia’s climate wars ending?
How bringing back the wild yam is feeding the hungry in drought-hit Madagascar.
Five ice-age mammoths unearthed in Cotswolds after 220,000 years.
Great Barrier Reef could face another mass bleaching by end of January, forecast says.
Scientists watch giant ‘doomsday’ glacier in Antarctica with concern.
Guardian and Observer forced to cancel charity appeal telethon amid Omicron outbreak.
Peat sales to gardeners in England and Wales to be banned by 2024.
Deforestation making outdoor work unsafe for millions, says study.
‘This new snow has no name’: Sami reindeer herders face climate disaster.
Environmental activists ‘spat at by drivers’ at Rome protest.
Kenyan nomads’ age-old way of life falls victim to worst drought in memory.
Warmer winters can wreak as much havoc as hotter summers, say scientists.
Why keeping it cool is matter of survival for some species.
‘All I can think about is the children’s future’: drought devastates Kenya.
UK fishing licences for bottom-trawling could be unlawful, says Oceana.
Banks should be forced to service all ‘law-abiding businesses’, inquiry finds.
‘Really abnormal’ storms and tornadoes tear through Great Plains and midwest.
Good citizen award? No thanks, young climate campaigners tell Welsh council.
‘Grotesque greed’: immoral fossil fuel profits must be taxed, says UN chief.
Letters: James Lovelock obituary.
After more than a decade of darkness in Australia’s parliament, today was a good day for the climate.
At least 24 people dead as flash flooding hits eastern Uganda.
Labor’s climate bill set to pass with support from Greens and Bridget Archer.
Big oil is wringing humanity dry. We need a fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty.
Liberal MP Bridget Archer to cross the floor on climate bill.
Greens will vote in favour of Labor’s climate bill, Adam Bandt says.
New Zealand releases its first national plan to protect against climate-driven disasters.
Environmental and Covid challenges threaten Australia’s productivity rate after slowest growth in 60 years.
Death toll rises to four in California’s biggest wildfire this year.
Greens in ‘powerful position’ on climate as Labor faces scrutiny over Coalition’s ‘gas-fired recovery’ projects.
Those of us with family abroad can’t just give up flying.
Satellite images reveal shrinkage of Utah’s Great Salt Lake.
Spain warns heatwave threatens olive oil production.
Biden’s climate agenda faces yet another obstacle: Kyrsten Sinema.
Greenwashing is driving our descent into climate catastrophe. But we can stop it.
A day with America’s only dedicated heat team in the US’s hottest city.
Taylor Swift: claims about private jet use ‘blatantly incorrect’, says spokesperson.
Cricket must rethink sponsorship deals amid ongoing climate crisis.
The government’s oil and gas bill breaks promises and sows division.
Biden’s delay of ‘carbon bomb’ projects could be a big deal – but will it last?
Cyclone crosses Queensland coast at Townsville.
‘How to greenwash’: propane industry tries to rebrand fuel as renewable.
What happens to your body during extreme heat?
Optimism dries up in Amazon as Lula drifts from climate priorities.
I see blossom in January – and feel a sickening swell of solastalgia.
Kashmir’s ski resort waits for visitors after just one day of snow this winter.
Underground hydrogen discovery in France raises hopes for clean energy.
New emperor penguin colonies discovered in Antarctica after guano spotted from space.
Devastating drought in Amazon result of climate crisis, study shows.
Key climate language poorly understood by majority in UK, poll finds.
EU fossil fuel CO2 emissions hit 60-year low.
Tropical Cyclone Kirrily: are back-to-back summer storms normal for Queensland?
ExxonMobil’s attempt to silence activist investors should be a warning to shareholders.
Wars and climate crisis keep Doomsday Clock at 90 seconds to midnight.
‘It smells bad’: the US farmworkers grappling with unsafe water at home.
‘This hasn’t been done before’: can tech elites build their own city – and win over the skeptics?
Alok Sharma condemns government’s oil and gas bill as vote passes first hurdle.
Caroline Lucas: ‘I can’t imagine my parents ever voted Green, but they became less antagonistic’.
Waves are getting bigger. Is the world ready?
Tim Winton: Labor hasn’t delivered on more effective nature laws. It’s not just embarrassing, it’s calamitous.
Outcry as Trump withdraws support for research that mentions ‘climate’.
As the UK prepares its next carbon budget, what needs to be included?
Hurricane-proof skyscrapers vulnerable to less powerful windstorms, study finds.
Rolling back on climate actions may spell rise in preventable illness – study.
‘To say there’s no future is counterproductive’: metal megastars Architects on grief, climate and hope for humanity.
Melbourne activist can’t rely on evidence from climate experts to defend protest charges, court finds.
Why Trump’s water releases were dangerous for California’s levees.
‘If not fire, we’ll be killed by hunger’: villagers continue to feel fallout from Bolivia’s worst wildfires.
Two-thirds of the Earth’s surface experienced record heat in 2024. See where and by how much – visualised.
The climate crisis is a cost-of-living issue for Australia. My generation will be the first to pay for it.
Climate advocacy groups file two lawsuits against Trump administration.
Outrage as Trump cites ‘emergency’ to fast-track fossil fuel projects.
Melting glaciers caused almost 2cm of sea level rise this century, study reveals.
EU overhaul of farming strategy ignores vital green proposals, campaigners warn.
HSBC net zero goal delayed 20 years, as CEO offered 600% bonus.
Developing world urges rich nations to defy Trump’s ‘climate nihilism’.
Clean energy contributed 10% to China’s GDP in 2024, analysis shows.
Severe drought puts nearly half a million children at risk in Amazon – report.
Trump has pledged to wage war on planet Earth – and it will take a progressive revolution to stop him.
Dining across the divide: ‘The only thing we agreed on was our mutual dislike of Boris Johnson’.
Our mistake was to think we lived in a better country than we do.
‘It can lead to chaos’: false claims and hoaxes surge as Spain’s floods recede.
This year ‘virtually certain’ to be hottest on record, finds EU space programme.
Donald Trump can’t stop global climate action. If we stick together, it’s the US that will lose out.
Von der Leyen’s Cop29 absence sends ‘fatal signal’, say watchers.
‘A wrecking ball’: experts warn Trump’s win sets back global climate action.
‘Ecosystems are collapsing’: one of Australia’s longest rivers has lost more than half its water in one section, research shows.
Dick Smith’s ABC radio rant against renewables overflows with ill-informed claims.
With Trump returning to the presidency, everything from abortion to immigration is under threat.
Vanishing act: Panama’s Guna people forced to move as the sea swallows their island.
I tried to warn Valencia’s government about flooding, but it didn’t listen.
Nearly all of US states are facing droughts, an unprecedented number.
Post Office campaigner Alan Bates says he’s been waiting a month for reply from PM about compensation delays.
‘There’s so much confrontation’: Valencians sick of political bickering after Spain’s floods.
‘People do not want to believe it is true’: the photographer capturing the vanishing of glaciers.
Protesters scale back blockade of world’s biggest coal port but NSW police ready for mass ‘disruption’ at Newcastle.
Oklahoma: more tornado warnings issued a day after 11 injured in twisters.
PM flags consideration of dedicated force for natural disaster responses amid climate crisis.
Global heating will pass 1.5C threshold this year, top ex-Nasa scientist says.
Where has all the honey gone? Scientists point to factors in declining yields.
Flowers everywhere? England’s ambitious scheme to restore wildlife hangs in the balance.
Cop29 host Azerbaijan to hike gas output by a third over next decade.
Drone footage shows Pulborough village submerged in water following Storm Henk.
Jeremy Hunt’s net zero target claims criticised by climate advisers.
Young voters helped Biden to victory. They may abandon him this year.
‘A golden opportunity’: Port Talbot fights to keep its steelmaking tradition alive.
Awash with fossil fuel money, African football is sowing the seeds of its own destruction.
Beer, bread and beyond: the ‘mind-blowing’ potential of Australia’s mountain rye and other perennial grains.
Climate and vaccine misinformation seemed worlds apart – but it turned out the Cranky Uncle was a universal figure.
Warmer winters and more flooding will be the norm in the UK, scientists warn.
‘It’s full of green areas’: mystery of Europe’s heat death hotspot.
US braces for snow and heavy rain as major storm predicted for weekend.
Rishi Sunak under fire after week of devastating flooding across England.
Heavy flooding is UK’s climate crisis ‘wake-up call’, says Tewkesbury Abbey canon.
Oil industry veteran to lead next round of Cop climate change summit.
It’s not just the total rainfall – why is eastern Australia experiencing such sudden, devastating downpours?
Cookies and candy are latest victims of climate crisis as sugar prices surge.
Peter Dutton rejects push by moderate Liberals to change position on climate legislation.
Blistering heatwave suspected in 14 Oregon deaths.
Kentucky death toll rises to 35 from devastating flooding as hundreds still missing.
Climate endgame: risk of human extinction ‘dangerously underexplored’.
Warren Entsch may support Labor’s climate target if he can be shown it’s not a ‘brain fart’.
The Guardian view on the warming of the Alps: a challenge for tourism.
African nations expected to make case for big rise in fossil fuel output.
It’s time to give up flying on holiday.
The big idea: do nations really need borders?
Hotter than Dubai: US cities at risk of Middle Eastern temperatures by 2100.
UK farmers count cost as heatwave kills fruit and vegetable crops.
‘Reality is scary’: climate culture war heats up for UK meteorologists.
PM says voice referendum should be ‘unifying moment’.
Taylor Swift may be an inconsiderate climate vandal. Capitalism makes us all complicit.
How much could insulating Britain save the average home?
The climate crisis is so boring – but I also hate the idea of burning to death.
Waitrose removes best-before dates from fresh food to reduce waste.
Righter than right: Tories’ hardline drift may lose the public.
Blooming Essex garden points to future of horticulture in a heating UK.
Far right using climate crisis as bogeyman to frighten voters and build higher walls.
The summer of green music festivals.
Homes wrecked as Hurricane Beryl hits south-east Caribbean.
Far-right win in French election could deal blow to climate policy, say experts.
After asking ‘What about the climate?’ for 14 years, I’m standing down as an MP. But I have reasons to be hopeful.
Disastrous fruit and vegetable crops must be ‘wake-up call’ for UK, say farmers.
‘Please send help’: Caribbean reels from Hurricane Beryl devastation.
As Canada braces for a raging summer, Indigenous communities remain displaced.
‘It’s nonsensical’: how Trump is making climate the latest culture war.
From the archive: Ten ways to confront the climate crisis without losing hope.
Queensland coalmine fire a ‘disaster’ for climate say environmental groups.
Google’s emissions climb nearly 50% in five years due to AI energy demand.
Biden attacks Republican climate deniers as he unveils extreme-heat rules.
Brutal heatwave to cook US west as Fourth of July wildfire risks loom.
The Guardian view on Britain’s green future: where was the debate?
‘It’s the future of sugar’: new technology feeds Vermont maple syrup boom amid climate crisis.
Shell to pause construction of huge biodiesel plant in Rotterdam.
Labour is putting its plans for Britain in the hands of private finance. It could end badly.
Port infrastructure delays threaten UK’s transition to net zero, industry says.
Wind, rain and floods as Hurricane Beryl tears through Caribbean.
How do you stop a glacier from melting? Simple – put up an underwater curtain.
Climate groups welcome fuel efficiency standards.
Fuel efficiency standards: Labor unveils proposal, highlighting petrol savings of $1,000 a year for motorists.
No more chocolate, coffee or wine? ‘Last supper’ shows stakes of climate crisis.
‘We love our piers’: storms and rising seas threaten California’s coastal landmarks.
‘Spoon worms lick the seabed with a metre-long tongue’: a voyage into a vanishing Arctic world.
Climate activists including Greta Thunberg acquitted over London protest.
A message to Starmer from the US: ditching your £28bn climate plan isn’t just cowardly – it’s bad politics.
Judge throws out case against Greta Thunberg and other London protesters.
‘Persistence is key’: how to convince your boss to do better on climate.
Stop looking for loopholes, UN warns, after Saudi hints end of fossil fuels ‘just one option’.
If women’s football cares about the climate crisis it must cut ties with Barclays.
ExxonMobil blocks green activists’ attempt to seek strategy vote.
‘It’s bittersweet’: parts of New Zealand’s Waitākere Ranges to reopen after ban to save kauri tree.
John Podesta: Biden’s new top climate diplomat is ‘uniquely qualified’.
Shell to raise dividends again despite 30% fall in annual profits.
Catalonia declares drought emergency, extending restrictions to Barcelona.
‘Water comes from all four sides’: how Rotterdam’s tidal park protects the city.
Australia ‘on track’ with climate targets needed to protect Great Barrier Reef, Labor tells Unesco.
Countries must bolster climate efforts or risk war, Cop30 chief executive warns.
Conservative party to ditch commitment to net zero in UK by 2050.
Cop30 in talks to hire PR firm that worked for lobby seeking weaker Amazon protections.
Ed Miliband vows to engage with China on climate after Tory ‘negligence’.
Climate activists to plead not guilty en masse under NSW’s controversial anti-protest laws.
Underwater ‘doorbell’ helps scientists catch coral-eating fish in Florida.
Big oil gathers in Texas – but beneath the bravado, Trump-induced anxiety.
Climate research into cloud barriers or Arctic refreezing is worth funding.
UK hoping to work with China to counteract Trump’s climate-hostile policies.
The global battle against the climate crisis needs China. I’m visiting Beijing, and that’s what I’ll tell them.
Richest farmers in England may lose sustainability funding in Defra review.
‘All the birds returned’: How a Chinese project led the way in water and soil conservation.
Environmental groups sound new alarm as fossil fuel lobby pushes for immunity.
Keep your head above water: art show looks at the rising seas.
Storm-raising, witches and the new conspiracist threat to weather research.
Trump officials decimate climate protections and consider axeing key greenhouse gas finding.
The government’s climate plans are still ambitious and on-track, so why is Labour making so much anti-green noise?
Trump’s ‘drill, baby, drill’ agenda could keep the world hooked on oil and gas.
The UK’s gamble on solar geoengineering is like using aspirin for cancer.
A bloke at the dog park said the government was controlling the cyclones. He is accidentally sort of correct.
US supreme court declines to pause new federal power plant emissions rule.
Wyoming rangers stop blowing up dead horses due to wildfire risk.
How the ‘climate voter’ might matter in a down-to-the-wire US election.
Is it worse to have no climate solutions – or to have them but refuse to use them?
County Durham school drops plan to turn off heat on climate ‘blue nose day’.
The Diamondbacks are facing a climate problem. They aren’t alone among US sports teams.
English homes ‘face decades of high bills and emissions’ without urgent action from ministers.
Carbon capture plan is a colossal waste of money.
More than 100 people died near the New Mexico border in 2024 – a tenfold increase in two years.
‘I love the smell of success more than petrol’: investors break with tradition in world-leading climate campaign.
A US university has a new requirement to graduate: take a climate change course.
The hunt for Europe's great white shark.
Foul smells and survival along the Caspian Sea.
What Milton and Helene reveal about the future of hurricanes.
What happens to the world if forests stop absorbing carbon? Ask Finland.
The hurricanes shaking the US election.
New evidence says gas exports damage the climate even more than coal. It’s time Australia took serious action.
Sudan’s humanitarian crisis won’t be sidelined.
Weatherwatch with added barbecue sauce.
Trees and land absorbed almost no CO2 last year. Is nature’s carbon sink failing?
Critically endangered stonefly with ‘remarkable’ lifespan faces extinction as Victorian government decision condemned.
Hosting Cop in 2026 could be the incentive Australia needs to turbocharge climate action.
Greta Thunberg joins climate activists blocking Swedish parliament.
Greta Thunberg joins climate protest blocking Swedish parliament.
Youth activists need protection against smear campaigns and arrests, says UN expert.
No crops, no brides: how rising seas are killing India’s coastal villages.
Europe unprepared for rapidly growing climate risks, report finds.
Film studio from Oscar-winning director aims to stir up ‘populist anger’ over climate crisis.
Protesting? In this climate? They really don’t understand business.
Biden backtracks on climate plans and ‘walks tightrope’ to court both young voters and moderates.
‘Money and energy to be saved’: how to get Australia’s bodies corporate to go green.
We can’t pretend we’re doing enough if we want to give the Great Barrier Reef a chance to survive.
Labour says it would aim for zero-waste economy by 2050.
More new species? We can’t look after the ones we have!.
‘Outrageous and disgusting’: Greens MP condemns comparison of Queensland climate protests to US capitol riots.
Fifth mass coral bleaching event in eight years hits Great Barrier Reef, marine park authority confirms.
Climate anxiety adds to teenagers’ fears.
Empowering female cotton farmers could boost climate resilience.
John Kerry doesn’t get it: the US can’t be a force for good on the climate until it stops fossil fuel expansion.
Green upgrades could cut UK energy bills by £1,800 a year, finds study.
Storms threaten more disruption on heels of record-breaking UK heat.
‘Hellfire’: what the papers say about UK’s hottest ever day.
‘Absolute hell’: firefighters battle blazes across UK on record hottest day.
Temperature passes 40C for first time; London fire brigade warns of ‘huge surge in fires’.
Biden under pressure to declare climate emergency after Manchin torpedoes bill.
Record-breaking hot temperatures spark fires across England.
Biden to make Wednesday climate address as dangerous heat grips US and world.
The Guardian view on public attitudes to the climate crisis: burning for change.
The dire state of the environment report is a major challenge for Labor – and an opportunity.
Greens will ruin climate consensus if they sink 43% target, Labor activist warns.
‘Pools of sunscreen, litres of water’: extreme heat around the UK – photo essay.
Why do Britain’s roads melt and its rails buckle in heat?
Government inertia is the biggest barrier to tackling climate crisis.
Our planet will not be saved by individual actions.
Simple solutions to building cool houses.
Levelling up in the heat of the moment.
Suspect in huge French forest fire questioned over arson in 2012.
World Meteorological Organization head uses tie to illustrate global warming.
The Guardian view on supporting vaccines: humans can work miracles – so why wouldn’t we?
Revealed: ‘extremely concerning’ industry influence over UN aviation body.
‘No one wants to pay $25 for breakfast’: US restaurants are cracking under inflation.
I met the ‘godfathers of AI’ in Paris – here’s what they told me to really worry about.
EVs and datacentres driving new global ‘age of electricity’, says watchdog.
Brake pad dust can be more toxic than exhaust emissions, study says.
Weatherwatch: Hadley Centre shows Thatcher understood value of climate science.
Climate crisis contributing to chocolate market meltdown, research finds.
‘Even the sound of the water has changed’: can Bogotá bring its wetlands back from the brink?
World’s largely unprotected peatlands are ticking ‘carbon bomb’, warns study.
Musk’s ‘efficiency’ agency site adds data from controversial rightwing thinktank.
Trump names oil and gas advocate to lead agency that manages federal lands.
A challenge for readers to go plastic-free.
‘The far right wants us to play by their rules’: Can German Greens survive ‘witch-hunt’?
Philippines storm survivors join climate protest outside Shell HQ in London.
Intense heatwave in southern Brazil forces schools to suspend return.
Britons urged to join hunt for rare daffodil breeds amid extinction fears.
GoFundMe raises $250m for LA fires victims, more than for all other disasters last year.
Tenants demand protections as LA fires exacerbate housing crisis: ‘Huge source of stress’.
Endangered waves: why Australia’s revered surf spots could soon reach a breaking point.
Baillie Gifford book festival protesters are losing the plot.
Trump vows to ‘drill, baby, drill’ despite rally attendees wilting in extreme heat.
Peter Dutton’s plans will breach the Paris agreement on climate – that much is clear.
Mexico’s new president ran on climate goals. Will she follow through?
Barnaby Joyce and Keith Pitt call on Coalition to abandon Paris agreement as Albanese says Dutton ‘all negativity and no plan’.
Weather tracker: May sets new global temperature record.
‘Disappointing and surprising’: Why isn’t this a climate election in the UK?
In all this noisy election debate, why is there a conspiracy of silence about Brexit?
Coalition savaged for claiming it is committed to net zero by 2050 but would ditch 2030 emissions target.
Climate scientist Susan Solomon: ‘Let’s not give up now – we’re right on the cusp of success’.
‘We may not have snow’: Australian ski season opens with a whimper.
From parched earth to landslides: crisis in the prosecco hills of Italy.
Peter Dutton accused of trying to ‘rip up’ Australia’s commitment to Paris climate agreement.
Wildfire smoke prematurely killed over 50,000 Californians in a decade – study.
Flood alerts at record level in Great Britain in first four months of 2024.
Heat pumps: how to reduce your carbon footprint while saving money this winter.
The planet is in a spin. What is it trying to say?
‘It’s just too big’: division over plans for UK’s biggest solar farm.
‘All these problems are solvable’: Great Lakes shipping fights to cut emissions.
Trade row won’t hurt US and China’s emissions talks, says US climate chief.
BP to hand investors $7bn this year as it expands oil operations.
Global methane emissions rising at fastest rate in decades, scientists warn.
Wind and solar energy overtake fossil fuels to provide 30% of EU electricity.
Firefighters continue battle against more than 100 blazes burning in the US.
Pylons can be pretty if you use your imagination.
As record heat risks bleaching 73% of the world’s coral reefs, scientists ask ‘what do we do now?’.
How ‘world’s first oil town’ is wrestling with fossil fuel legacy.
‘Smarter money’ is the key that will unlock the promise of Africa and the Caribbean.
‘Warning sign to us all’ as UK butterfly numbers hit record low.
Second Trump term could boost toxic ‘forever chemicals’, experts warn.
The end is nigh. For insects, bats, protest, the planet….
‘Morally, nobody’s against it’: Brazil’s radical plan to tax global super-rich to tackle climate crisis.
‘The PTSD is horrible’: for Californians who survived tragedy, new blazes stir trauma.
Prince William could overturn king’s windfarm ban as he orders renewable energy review for estate.
Extreme heat poses ‘real risk’ to Spain’s mass tourism industry.
Was the jailing of Just Stop Oil protesters fair?
Ed Miliband says Labour will honour pledge of £11.6bn in overseas climate aid.
Asphalt burns, delirium, body bags: extreme heat overwhelms ERs across US.
What is a storm surge, and what is the threat from Hurricane Milton?
Collapsing wildlife populations near ‘points of no return’, report warns.
On the climate crisis, housing and more, politicians avoid clarity because it demands action.
Foreign aid for fossil fuel projects quadrupled in a single year.
Some Floridians choose to stay despite warnings of life risk: ‘We have faith in the Lord’.
Hurricane Milton: what causes such intense storms?
Ron DeSantis is unfit for hurricane response, activists say: ‘Florida isn’t safe’.
Our dystopian climate isn’t just about fires and floods. It’s about society fracturing.
Andrew Forrest says net zero is ‘fantasy’ so his goal is ‘real zero’. What does he mean – and can he achieve it?
US emergency crews struggle as climate crisis fuels ‘unprecedented’ competing disasters.
Europe was a leader on saving nature. Now, its backsliding could threaten global progress.
Anger over ‘bonkers’ UK plan to reach net zero by importing wood to burn.
Hurricane Milton: what does it actually take to evacuate during a weather crisis?
Global heating makes hurricanes like Helene twice as likely, data shows.
China to head green energy boom with 60% of new projects in next six years.
‘A huge loss’: is it the end for the ship that helped us understand life on Earth?
Energy industry trade body chief to head UK’s climate watchdog.
US south-east reels from ‘unspeakable tragedy’ of Helene as new storm looms.
Double punch of hurricanes could become common due to climate crisis.
It is us we are waiting for! Africa needs to shape its own conservation and climate agenda.
Farnborough airshow to focus on cleaner flying and potential fighter jet deal.
The terrifying truth: Britain’s a hothouse, but one day 40C will seem cool.
Unions call for maximum UK workplace temperature as heatwave descends.
Tory climate deniers are feeling the heat.
Penny Mordaunt pledges to create ‘millions of green jobs’ if elected Tory leader.
‘Avalanche of fires’: what the front pages around the world say.
Thousands evacuated as wildfires sweep across western Europe.
Climate chief Alok Sharma warns: I may quit if new PM dumps net zero pledge.
Johnson skips emergency Cobra meeting as experts warn thousands may die in UK heatwave.
Heatwave? No, it’s a national emergency, disrupting lives and threatening our health.
Firefighters tackle southern Europe wildfires as heatwave passes 45C.
Wildfires spread through western Europe as temperatures reach mid-40Cs.
Anger as Manchin kills Democrats’ climate plans – what happens now?
Biden pledges executive action after Joe Manchin scuppers climate agenda.
‘I will not back down’: Biden vows executive action if Senate cannot pass climate bill.
The seas are rising on Pacific islands nations – but so is their powerful resistance.
England braces for 40C temperatures as experts warn thousands could die.
We need a practical handbook to build a bottom-up democracy.
The Guardian view on July weather: here comes the dangerously hot sun.
Labour’s green rowback: honest politics or a costly mistake?
Atmospheric river storms are getting stronger, and deadlier. The race to understand them is on.
Scuttling his flagship green policy, Sir Keir Starmer has imperilled his credibility.
The Observer view: Labour’s green U-turn has threatened its plan for growth.
Climate-crisis deniers sought for exclusive Florida residence. Private ark essential.
‘It was total panic – with black smoke, falling fireballs and tongues of flame’: the terror of Chile’s wildfires.
Atlantic Ocean circulation nearing ‘devastating’ tipping point, study finds.
How a novated lease can save you thousands on an electric vehicle.
‘It would be devastating’: inside Trump’s plan to destroy the EPA.
US climate scientist Michael Mann wins $1m in defamation lawsuit.
The world is reducing its reliance on fossil fuels – except for in three key sectors.
Labour’s £28bn green policy U-turn.
The Guardian view on Labour’s green retreat: wrong, wrong, wrong.
Australia’s climate has warmed by 1.5C since 1910, BoM temperature records show.
Monarch butterfly numbers dip to second lowest level in Mexico wintering grounds.
Live Aid promoter announces global concerts to tackle climate crisis.
Australian red meat industry says it doesn’t need to meet its self-imposed net zero target.
Society of the Snow: Andes plane crash film reveals a human tragedy – and points to an environmental one.
Contempt, gagging and UN intervention: inside the UK’s wildest climate trial.
Floods fuelled 19% drop in income from farming in England in 2023.
Solitary wooden house on Union Island escapes fury of Hurricane Beryl.
As British butterflies head north, scientists ask public to help track migration.
How Sydney’s endless rain is ruining football seasons and breaking young hearts.
Newsroom edition: why anti-protest laws won’t stop climate activists – Full Story podcast.
Argentina’s future lies in the balance as vast oilfields poised for extraction.
Las Vegas sets record for number of days over 115F amid its ‘most extreme heatwave in history’.
‘It’s about survival’: Athens mayor focuses on getting capital through extreme heat.
Protesting stuff is your democratic right – or is it?
New Zealand’s sea temperatures hit record highs, outstripping global averages.
Climate expert Chris Stark appointed to lead UK clean energy taskforce.
James Inhofe, former Republican senator who called climate change a ‘hoax’, dies aged 89.
‘Antidotes to despair’: five things we’ve learned from the world’s best climate journalists.
Florida: tree cactus becomes first local species killed off by sea-level rise.
Hurricane Beryl supercharged by ‘crazy’ ocean temperatures, experts say.
Nato’s 2023 military spending produced about 233m metric tonnes of CO2 – report.
Devastation as world’s biggest wetland burns: ‘those that cannot run don’t stand a chance’.
Why does being right on climate feel so wrong?
The Guardian view on the climate and the election: a gulf divides science from policy.
In defence of the Environment Agency’s dedicated but overstretched staff.
Record high temperatures sweep US north-east as tropical storm hits Texas.
Power bills could rise by $1,000 a year under Coalition plan to boost gas until nuclear is ready, analysts say.
‘What if there just is no solution?’ How we are all in denial about the climate crisis.
Future impact of proposed fossil fuel projects must be assessed, UK court rules.
Planes spray-painted at UK airfield where Just Stop Oil says Taylor Swift jet landed.
Deadly heat in Mexico and US made 35 times more likely by global heating.
Fewer swallows grace summer skies in Britain amid changing climate.
Most people in petrostates want quick switch to clean energy, UN poll finds.
France urged to step in to spur TotalEnergies’ transition from oil.
‘No credible reason’ to expect cheaper power bills under Peter Dutton’s nuclear energy plan, experts say.
‘The sky was on fire’: New Mexico villagers flee two deadly wildfires.
Heatwaves and wildfires strike across US as tropical storm forms in gulf.
How are you being affected by the heatwave in southern Europe?
Queensland could be nuclear hub under Coalition’s new energy plan.
Indian engineers warn of prolonged blackouts amid searing heatwave.
From Silicon Valley to Silicon Savannah: climate expert Patrick Verkooijen on why this is Africa’s century.
What are the main UK parties promising on climate and is it enough?.
Andrew Forrest says Coalition’s abandonment of 2030 emissions target would ‘decimate’ economy.
‘Hope is a discipline’: youth climate case plaintiff on why he’s suing the US government.
Nelson Mandela taught me this: hope survives wherever people come together.
Red alert in Antarctica: the year rapid, dramatic change hit climate scientists like a ‘punch in the guts’.
Sunak under fire for ‘inexplicable’ failure to appoint new climate committee chief.
The world in 2024: Guardian writers on what to look out for.
Climate scientists hail 2023 as ‘beginning of the end’ for fossil fuel era.
World will look back at 2023 as year humanity exposed its inability to tackle climate crisis, scientists say.
‘Act out of love not anger’: green trailblazer calls for unity in movement.
Berlin’s plan for driverless magnetic trains derided by climate groups.
Everything politicians tell you about immigration is wrong. This is how it actually works.
Extreme weather is changing California. These road trips show how.
This is how our 21st-century peasants’ revolt took on the royals over rewilding – and won.
No more hot air: Australian climate activism and political satire.
Full Story revisited: Where did all the Antarctic sea ice go?
‘We have a responsibility’: the older women suing Switzerland to demand climate action.
Spanish minister hails deal to save Andalucía wetlands as a model for green transition.
2023’s costliest climate disasters show poor lose out in ‘global postcode lottery’.
Filipino couple wade through flood waters on wedding day.
Billionaire investor threatens to pull out of UK amid global outcry at new oil rush.
China: cars swept away by flood waters in Beijing after Typhoon Doksuri.
Cancelling Antarctic climate research will damage Australia’s reputation, experts say.
Why carbon capture and storage will not solve the climate crisis any time soon.
Here’s the truth about Sunak’s plans for the North Sea: he will sell out the planet to the dirtiest bidders.
Bride wades through floodwaters after Philippines hit by typhoons.
Climate activists target Woodside CEO’s home in protest, company claims.
TechScape: Turns out there’s another problem with AI – its environmental toll.
‘Silent killer’: experts warn of record US deaths from extreme heat.
Leak reveals ‘touchy’ issues for UAE’s presidency of UN climate summit.
Airport submerged as widespread flooding continues in China.
Australian climate science projects in Antarctica put on ice due to budget cuts.
Teenager among 15 heat-related deaths as Japan and South Korea swelter.
Phoenix’s record streak of temperatures above 110F ends after 31 days.
Huge wildfire explodes in southern California and spreads into Nevada.
The Guardian view on new North Sea drilling: misreading the mood.
Backtrack on net zero and lose votes, Tory MPs warn Sunak.
Art can move us powerfully towards civic activism on climate.
Unesco recommends putting Venice on heritage danger list.
Embankment of 18th-century canal in Cheshire collapses after flooding.
UK electricity cleanest ever in 2024, with record 58% from low-carbon sources.
‘Extraordinary longevity’: great whales can live a lot longer than we thought – if we leave them alone.
Fig and almond trees thriving in UK thanks to fewer frosts, RHS says.
Weatherwatch: 2025 likely to be another year of high temperatures.
BoM data finds 2024 was Australia’s second-hottest year on record.
Centrelink payments increase, passport fees up, import bans and pay rises: all the changes in Australia on 1 January.
Republican-run states see opportunity to push extreme policies under Trump.
At Extinction Rebellion, we aimed for UK net zero in 2025. That won’t happen – so here’s what to do instead.
Former EU environment chief warns against backsliding on climate crisis.
California will require insurers to offer home coverage in wildfire-prone areas.
Trump aims to crush legal curbs on his climate rollback – but it may not be easy.
‘In 10 years we may cease to exist’: rising seas and influx of tourists threaten to engulf Panama island.
Starmer faces test of climate leadership with big decisions on carbon budget.
‘Moving to the mountaintops’: rising seas displace tens of thousands in Papua New Guinea.
Essex county council sends 95% of non-recycled waste to landfill, data reveals.
World endures 'decade of deadly heat' as 2024 caps hottest years on record.
The Wolves Always Come at Night review – melancholy meditation on a lost way of life.
2024’s most costly climate disasters killed 2,000 people and caused $229bn in damages, data shows.
From climate denial to gothic movies to ‘treat culture’ … what to expect in 2025.
Science Museum ‘must lay down conditions’ to fossil fuel sponsors.
Waterbirds in eastern Australia declining despite breeding boost from wet years, survey finds.
Sampdoria’s Morten Thorsby: ‘They call me football’s Greta Thunberg’.
Morrison government says no to controversial Pep11 gas drilling project off NSW coast.
The climate crisis and devastating drought in eastern Africa.
Matt Canavan says Labor’s climate plan is ‘revenge on Queensland’, but the facts tell a different story.
Mining giant concedes emissions ‘blowout’ at Queensland coalmine.
How border walls are triggering ecological disaster.
This Christmas, don’t try to fix your racist uncle who doesn’t believe in vaccines or climate change.
Six dead giraffes: Kenya drought horror captured in single picture.
Heavy rain and snow pummel California after a season of historic wildfires.
Anti-cycling lobby is on the wrong path.
Is Labor’s ‘modest’ climate plan good enough?
‘Colossal waste’: Nobel laureates call for 2% cut to military spending worldwide.
Bugs across globe are evolving to eat plastic, study finds.
Barbados can be a beacon for the region – if it avoids some of its neighbours’ mistakes.
‘I could be a bee in a hive’: the real-life Beekeeper of Aleppo on life in Yorkshire.
Music industry unites to pledge net-zero emissions by 2050.
MPs call for halt to Britain’s incinerator expansion plans.
Russia vetoes UN security council resolution linking climate crisis to international peace.
Stop billionaires blowing hot air on climate.
The climate emergency really is a new type of crisis – consider the ‘triple inequality’ at the heart of it.
‘They’re inherently charismatic’: the amateur sleuths hooked on sea slugs.
Consumerism is the path to planetary ruin, but there are other ways to live.
‘Fire on fire’: how migrants got blamed for Greece’s devastating blazes.
Man found dead after statewide search.
Madagascan heatwave ‘virtually impossible’ without human-caused global heating.
Companies still investing too much in fossil fuels, global energy watchdog says.
NSW Coalition and Greens to push Labor to legislate 70% emissions reduction target by 2035.
Queensland rejects Clive Palmer’s bid to build ‘carbon neutral’ coal-fired power station.
Use a carbon fee to share the burden of the green transition.
Ban private jets to address climate crisis, says Thomas Piketty.
Who are the polluter elite and how can we tackle carbon inequality?
‘It is all about listening and sharing’: Indigenous solutions to the carbon divide.
Weight of the world part 3: The climate scientists who hold out hope – Full Story podcast.
Toowoomba council votes for moratorium on coal seam gas projects.
‘Hope has to be a strategy’: the scientist who refused to let the climate warmongers win.
Greens could sink Labor’s gas industry scheme over concerns it supports fossil fuel expansion.
‘The antidote to despair is action’: Lesley Hughes on motivation through a climate crisis.
Albanese government to rapidly expand investment scheme for clean energy projects.
Climate activists plan direct action against UK oil infrastructure.
UK urged not to abandon climate goals amid net zero row.
Narrabri mine expansion would make it dirtiest thermal coalmine in Australia, environmentalists say.
Coalition spends $31m on ads spruiking efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
Small pets at risk of heatstroke as temperatures rise, study finds.
Europe’s biggest banks provide £24bn to oil and gas firms despite net zero pledges.
Scientific proof that being wrong is right.
Experts sceptical of Shine Energy’s proposed ‘flexible’ coal power station.
Blooming flowers, fledgling birds … the UK’s spring is early – and always will be.
Trump-appointed judge blocks Biden administration climate metric.
Here’s how to demolish the most common excuses for climate crisis apathy.
The environmental activists bringing the climate crisis to the courtroom.
Plastic-free meal deals would taste better.
‘The treeline is out of control’: how the climate crisis is turning the Arctic green.
Future of world’s most exclusive horse race on thin ice due to global heating.
Architects call for mass insulation of England’s interwar suburbs.
Tory group fighting net zero ‘a small minority’, say parliamentarians.
The UK’s net zero goal is backed by nearly all MPs.
Little penguins on WA island will be pushed to ‘breaking point’ by construction of new centre, expert says.
Force pension funds to align with net zero goal, says Richard Curtis.
Australia’s biggest industrial players are focusing on climate solutions – why isn’t the political debate?
‘Canaries in the coalmine’: loss of birds signals changing planet.
Queensland commits to not closing any coal power plants under net zero plan.
Blow for Barclays as 20% of shareholders reject climate strategy.
EU officials being trained to meditate to help fight climate crisis.
Climate sceptic thinktank received funding from fossil fuel interests.
‘Extreme heat can be deadly:’ how cricket is handling the climate crisis.
How the oil and gas industry is trying to hold US public schools hostage.
‘We’re being left with nothing’: Ireland’s turf wars expose rural grievances.
In Hunter, where coal is king, a Labor heartland seat faces a strong Coalition challenge.
Government to consider impact of UK energy efficiency plan on poor households.
Flood and cyclone-prone areas in eastern Australia may be ‘uninsurable’ by 2030, report suggests.
‘We are living in hell’: Pakistan and India suffer extreme spring heatwaves.
Windy weather to raise risk of wildfire in south-western US.
Sunak urged to issue green bonds with higher returns if climate goals missed.
The west can cut its energy dependency on Russia and be greener.
CSIRO has become ‘extravagant consulting company’, one of its former top climate scientists says.
What is the single most effective thing I could do to reduce my carbon footprint?
‘Turning the dial up’: US south-west braces for extended wildfire season amid drastic drought.
Anthony Albanese pledges to lower cost of PBS medicines and boost EVs at Labor campaign launch.
Mayotte: drone footage shows cyclone damage as French official tells rescuers not to panic.
Farming has always been gambling with dirt – but the odds are getting longer.
‘Increasingly worried’: more than a quarter of a million waterbirds disappear from eastern Australia.
Coalition’s nuclear plan will hit Earth with 1.7bn extra tonnes of CO2 before 2050, experts warn.
‘Like a giant bird box’: the volunteers building huge snowdrifts for Finland’s pregnant seals.
Anxious scientists brace for Trump’s climate denialism: ‘We have a target on our backs’.
LA tree enthusiast shares her love for the city’s canopy: ‘Something we took for granted’.
‘Trump has been explicit about revenge’: Asif Kapadia on his new film about the threat to democracy.
The Coalition’s nuclear costings and their rubbery assumptions take us back to being a climate pariah.
‘The water war’: how drought threatens survival of Sicily’s towns.
Sam Groth quits John Pesutto’s shadow frontbench.
From the US to Uganda, how climate activism has been criminalised in 2024.
Senate committee recommends national hate crimes database and tougher laws.
‘A human face on an abstract problem’: ICJ forced to listen to climate victims.
‘I have to live in a cocoon’: locals in Pennsylvania feel ‘sacrificed’ for Shell plastics plant.
‘Making Argentina great again’? What a year under a climate-change denying president has done for the country.
‘We’re an evolving laboratory’: the island on a quest to be self-sufficient in energy.
Queensland environment minister stands by ‘scepticism’ about human-induced climate change.
Malaria cases rise for fifth year as disasters and resistance hamper control efforts.
£262bn investor says it will target bosses who fail on climate or human rights.
Leading the charge: wildlife experts plan for future of Nepal’s rhinos.
Port in a storm: the trailblazing town welcoming climate refugees in Bangladesh.
Tax on parking: UK cities to impose levy on cars in bid to cut pollution.
Weatherwatch: lessons from a late friend’s 30 years of record-keeping.
Oil industry board members to testify to Congress on climate disinformation.
Guardian and Observer climate justice charity appeal tops £1m.
The smell of money: why locals think Peru’s billion-dollar fishmeal sector stinks.
Female leadership is good for the world. Just look at Barbados.
‘Just a new fossil fuel industry’: Australia to send first shipment of liquefied hydrogen to Japan.
Make no mistake – Labor and the Coalition have starkly different climate policies.
‘Stuck in perilous moment’: Doomsday Clock holds at 100 seconds to midnight.
‘Like a work of art’: rare stretch of pristine coral reef discovered off Tahiti.
‘Like witnessing a birth in a morgue’: the volunteers working to save the Joshua trees.
By 2050, a quarter of the world’s people will be African – this will shape our future.
After Biden’s first year, the US economy is surprisingly healthy. His prospects are not.
‘The treeline is out of control’: how the climate crisis is turning the Arctic green.
Expanding national parks not enough to protect nature, say scientists.
I study crowds – that’s why I know the police and crime bill will make us less safe.
BlackRock’s Larry Fink: climate policies are about profits, not being ‘woke’.
‘We are creating a material monster’: the false logic of faux leather.
Puddle Britain: 11 amazing facts about tiny bodies of water.
The great carbon divide: inside the 24 November Guardian Weekly.
‘The river took it all’: Somalis wait for waters to recede as floods kill dozens.
‘Fascinating and saddening’: 30 new species seen in Bath due to changing climate.
Queensland’s wet tropics see 25% rise in threatened species in three years as climate change bites.
The Great Climate Fight review – Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall goes ‘not strictly legal’.
The Guardian view on festive marketing: stop spending like there’s no tomorrow.
National living wage to rise to £11.44 an hour from April and extended to 21-year-olds.
Support the Guardian – and help us confront the climate crisis.
‘Carbon offsets are not credible’: the travel boss exposing the truth about the industry’s sustainability.
Weight of the world part 2: the climate scientists who copped it – Full Story podcast.
‘I cannot stress too much about it’: Monaco yacht buyers shrug off climate concerns.
Who is the world’s worst carbon foot prince? We name and shame!.
Ad industry grapples with role selling consumption in climate crisis.
The jet set: 200 celebrities’ aircraft have flown for combined total of 11 years since 2022.
Of course working-class people care about the climate crisis: they emit the least, but will suffer most.
‘Vulnerable’ Pacific countries must get maximum benefit from ‘loss and damage’ fund, Australian climate minister says.
BoM provides El Niño update.
TV tonight: why Mary Portas gave Rishi Sunak a Jilly Cooper book.
Greta Thunberg says it’s ‘strange’ Joe Biden is considered a climate leader.
Desmond Tutu’s devotion to the planet and to justice for all.
Snakes alive! Why bring bricks so far?
‘Do you accept the science?’ Talking points show how Angus Taylor prepared for IPCC report’s release.
At least 18 peaceful environmental protesters jailed in UK this year.
Britons think politicians’ hypocrisy will hamper tackling climate crisis.
Telling people to ‘follow the science’ won’t save the planet. But they will fight for justice.
Why feeding your pets insects could become all the buzz.
Asad Rehman on climate justice: ‘Now we are seeing these arguments cut through’.
Engineering the future: meet the Africa prize shortlist innovators.
How ‘new normal’ of wild weather put strain on UK nature in 2021.
A year of extreme weather in the American west.
Charity appeal in Guatemala, where the fight for land and water rights is a battle for survival.
What the numbers tells us about a catastrophic year of wildfires.
A seed for all seasons: can ancient methods future-proof food security in the Andes?
Guardian and Observer climate justice charity appeal raises £500,000.
The pandemic is a warning: we must take care of the earth, our only home.
Our favourite photos from 2021: how Guardian US pictures captured a historic year.
End trade barriers to help tackle climate crisis, says WTO chief.
Artificial whale poo experiment hoped to capture carbon.
Spanish fishers in Galicia report ‘catastrophic’ collapse in shellfish stocks.
Rachel Reeves tells MPs of plans to go ‘further and faster’ in pursuit of growth.
The Guardian view on Labour’s climate plans: they should be central to the party’s purpose.
UK politics: Miliband tells MPs UK needs to ‘speed up, not slow down’ in net zero drive.
UK weather: major incident declared in Somerset as storms bring flooding.
Dangerous temperatures could kill 50% more Europeans by 2100, study finds.
Bristol may become first English council to collect black bins every four weeks.
Monday briefing: What if the climate crisis makes disaster insurance unaffordable?
The framing of the shrew: California students photograph mammal never caught on film.
From showers to tiny fish to windmills, Trump’s climate policies are driven by fixations.
The Kyoto climate treaty is hailed on stage but reality tells a different story.
Wes Streeting heckled by climate protesters at Fabian Society address.
I was jailed for four years for a non-violent climate protest – this is my prison diary.
Phoenix nears dry spell record as drought conditions worsen.
Through the blizzard of edicts, see Trump for what he is: an autocrat reaching for limitless power.
World’s largest iceberg drifts threateningly toward remote island of penguins and seals.
UK climate and nature bill dropped after deal with Labour backbenchers.
‘Is that thing legal?’: trialling the Yo-Go on Britain’s most dangerous roundabout.
Californians hope rain will bring respite from LA wildfires as Trump set to visit.
Record low wild salmon catch in Scotland alarms ecologists.
‘Sea forest’ would be better name than seaweed, says UN food adviser.
Anthony Albanese to create climate super-department in bureaucratic shake-up.
Extinction obituary: how the Bramble Cay melomys became the first mammal lost to the climate crisis.
We cannot adapt our way out of climate crisis, warns leading scientist.
‘We were eating, drinking, breathing the oil’: the villagers who stood up to big oil – and won.
Fights broke out as top-down approach to Lismore flood response failed, inquiry told.
Biden praises Ardern for ‘galvanising action’ on gun control and climate change.
Labor will cut EV taxes and try to legislate 2030 emissions target, Chris Bowen says.
We older people must fight for a better America, and world, for younger generations.
Linking nitrous oxide to climate risk is yet another example of the disdain shown to women’s pain.
Is nitrous oxide a climate risk? Yes, but doctors say effective pain relief in childbirth should be the priority.
At least 91 dead in Brazil floods and landslides with many more missing.
Greenhouse gas removal ‘not a silver bullet to achieve net zero’.
Trent Zimmerman says Liberals should embrace Labor’s climate policy.
Can cross-breeding protect endangered species from the climate emergency?
The Observer view on the summits that forecast global environmental dangers.
Thirty-five dead as heavy rainfall lashes north-eastern Brazil.
Deaths of three Chicago women prompt urgent heat warnings.
Lord Browne: the man who went from BP and the North Sea to net zero.
'Summer of simmering': Guterres uses Asean summit to issue climate warning.
Private equity profits from climate disaster clean-up – while investing in fossil fuels.
‘Occupied by the US’: wildfires renew Native Hawaiian call for sovereignty.
Heat denial: influencers question validity of high temperatures.
Barnaby Joyce labels net zero ‘utterly untenable’ as potential Coalition rift emerges over climate.
How hole in ozone layer affected summer rainfall in Tibet.
First African climate summit: can development and climate action coexist?
I don’t want to sound like a broken record but the climate really is changing.
‘Major disruptor’: El Niño threatens the world’s rice supplies.
Approving new coalmines while pledging climate action is an untenable position – and the Albanese government knows it.
Utah officials sued over failure to save Great Salt Lake: ‘Trying to avert disaster’.
Biden to cancel oil and gas leases in Alaska issued by Trump administration.
African leaders call for debt relief to help tackle climate crisis.
Former oil executive Mark McAllister lined up to be next Ofgem chair.
‘A harrowing summer’: extreme weather costs hit US as 60m under heat alerts.
‘Smashed’: summer of 2023 the hottest ever recorded.
Hunger and hope: Africans tell of desperation and innovation as climate summit meets.
World meteorologists point to ‘vicious cycle’ of heatwaves and air pollution.
People trapped and towns flooded as storms hit Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria.
AOC, the change agent: inside the 8 September Guardian Weekly.
A year on, the devastating long-term effects of Pakistan’s floods are revealed.
At home with world heavyweight champion Tyson Fury, John Crace on Rishi’s climate retreat, and comedian Michelle Brasier on befriending her scammer.
Record rain helps New Zealand emissions fall – but the path to net zero won’t be so simple.
Art’s new wave: Fiji turns to underwater sculptures to restore its bleached reefs.
Kerbside ferns and vertical gardens: transforming Melbourne’s ‘grotty’ laneways into urban oases.
‘The extreme events scare me the most’: climatologist warns of Italy’s vulnerability to climate crisis.
Greta Thunberg accuses Edinburgh book festival sponsor of ‘greenwashing’.
Anger in China over plan to use cities as ‘moat’ to save Beijing from floods.
‘It was hell but the owner said, you have to work’: dying from heat in Greece.
Ocean surface hits highest ever recorded temperature and set to rise further.
Florida in race to rescue coral bleached by record ocean heat.
Antarctica’s heatwaves are a warning to humanity – and we have only a narrow window to save the planet.
Greens push Labor to release declassified climate crisis report ‘full of explosive truths’.
Virus-carrying tropical mosquitos found in Finland as climate heats.
Three-quarters of Republicans think economy is priority over climate – poll.
Huge sinkhole opens up in China after catastrophic flooding.
‘More in hope’: lessons from our tiny reforestation scheme in the Amazon.
Tell us: how have you been impacted by extreme weather in the UK?
Greenpeace activists put black fabric on Rishi Sunak's mansion in oil protest.
How the world has responded to Trump’s Paris climate agreement withdrawal.
Extreme weather failing to encourage political climate action, says activist Luisa Neubauer.
Firefighters battle to keep upper hand on new wildfire north of Los Angeles.
‘Chaos agent’ Trump revives California water wars as experts warn of turmoil.
Labour MPs ordered to sink landmark climate and environment bill.
UK politics: ‘It’s not a customs union’: No 10 leaves door open to joining pan-Europe scheme.
PR giant Edelman sounds alarm over ‘descent into grievance’ in Davos – but whose fault is that?
What Trump didn’t say in his inauguration speech.
Rachel Reeves’s bid to expand Heathrow could add £40 to airline ticket.
New California fire spurs evacuations as residents endure dangerous winds.
‘Rising star’: EU made more electricity from solar than coal in 2024.
If US millionaires can’t get fire insurance in the climate crisis, where does that leave poor nations?
Reeves says growth eclipses net zero as Heathrow runway decision looms.
‘We surpassed human limits to stop this’: LA megafires show our approach to fire needs to change.
Explained: how Trump’s day one orders reveal a White House for big oil.
UN chief says world’s addiction to fossil fuels is ‘Frankenstein’s monster’.
Revealed: US climate denial group working with European far-right parties.
The year the rainforest dried up: how the climate crisis beached Brazil’s floating communities.
US homeowners in disaster-prone states face soaring insurance costs.
World’s addiction to fossil fuels is ‘Frankenstein’s monster’, says UN chief.
Here’s how to repay developing nations for colonialism – and fight the climate crisis.
Amitav Ghosh: European colonialism helped create a planet in crisis.
Concerns for life in Western Australia’s Pilbara after 50.7C heat record matched.
World’s poorest bear brunt of climate crisis: 10 underreported emergencies.
Plants at risk of extinction as climate crisis disrupts animal migration.
Nearly quarter of world’s population had record hot year in 2021, data shows.
Inaction on global warming amounts to racism – let me tell you why.
‘They saw bigger things’: Richard Leakey, Edward O Wilson and Thomas Lovejoy remembered.
Why our secret weapon against the climate crisis could be humour.
Six in 10 Americans ‘alarmed’ or ‘concerned’ about climate change – study.
Australia’s stances on climate crisis and asylum seekers ‘backwards’, Human Rights Watch says.
‘Oppressive and wrong’: green activists urge Labour to vote against policing bill.
Australia matches its hottest day on record as Western Australia town hits 50.7C.
Fracking in Lake Eyre basin ‘would derail Queensland’s emissions plan’.
Universities are playing their part in the fight for the climate.
‘Extraordinarily warm’: winter is fastest-heating season in most of US.
‘More people is the last thing this planet needs’: the men getting vasectomies to save the world.
UK government sued over ‘pie-in-the-sky’ net-zero climate strategy.
2021 was New Zealand’s hottest year on record.
Johnson’s political weakness leaves climate agenda at risk, say campaigners.
Shortage of experts and low pay ‘major barriers to UK’s net zero future’.
So, what’s on the program at Labor’s national conference?
Australia may impose carbon tariffs on steel and cement imports from countries with lower climate goals.
The Guardian view on Hawaii’s lethal wildfire: lessons to learn from a catastrophe.
Long delays at Panama Canal after drought hits global shipping route.
Even in Greek towns razed by wildfires, people don’t blame the climate crisis. That must change.
Healthy diet in UK at risk from Mediterranean droughts, experts say.
UK homes install ‘record number’ of solar panels and heat pumps.
‘This way of farming is really sexy’: the rise of regenerative agriculture.
Seven West Media embedded with climate protesters before criticising ABC for doing the same.
Hawaii fires: questions arise over response as death toll rises to 93.
Heat deaths surge in the US’s hottest city as governor declares statewide ‘heat emergency’.
Author walks out of Edinburgh book festival over sponsor’s fossil fuel links.
Hawaii fires: a visual guide to the explosive blaze that razed Lahaina.
Singed trees, scorched homes: Lahaina reckons with unfathomable losses.
As temperatures soar and wildfires burn abroad, summer dread is returning to my body.
Fears many Australians will abandon home insurance as premiums jump 50% in high-risk areas.
In the trees with 90s ecowarriors: Olivia Laing on Janine Wiedel’s protest photos.
Carbon-capture gold rush an ‘insult’ to locals in emissions-hit Louisiana.
Rishi Sunak must not retreat from climate pledges, says top Tory mayor.
Pope Francis to lay bare ‘terrible world war’ on nature in papal letter.
First hurricanes, now wildfire: Louisiana parish takes on a new climate disaster.
High ocean temperatures fueling Hurricane Idalia as Florida braces for landfall.
Why did tourists keep coming as Rhodes and Maui burned? It’s about far more than denial.
Corruption watchdog cleared.
Why it may be time to stop using the polar bear as a symbol of the climate crisis.
Australia to acknowledge climate risk to government bonds after world-first court settlement.
Why rich nations must pour climate funds into Africa – for all our sakes.
EU fossil fuel burning for electricity fell to lowest on record in 2023, data shows.
‘Telling truths about this moment’: climate change author Jeff Goodell curates vital exhibition.
Too hot to handle: climate crisis report so secret Albanese government won’t even reveal date it was completed.
Greece wildfire declared largest ever recorded in EU.
Rishi Sunak used helicopter for trip from London to Norwich.
China continues coal spree despite climate goals.
Climate crisis to create ‘acute’ challenges for Australia’s economy, incoming RBA governor says.
Young climate activist tells Greenpeace to drop ‘old-fashioned’ anti-nuclear stance.
Burning Man attendees roadblocked by climate activists: ‘They have a privileged mindset’.
Hundreds more rapid charging points installed in UK to help drivers go electric.
Dramatic climate action needed to curtail ‘crazy’ extreme weather.
‘Off-the-charts records’: has humanity finally broken the climate?
‘People are dying’: Ethiopians escape war only to face hunger in Somaliland.
‘AFL players are concerned’: how the black summer fires spurred Tom Campbell to act on climate change.
New Mexico wildfire spreading north toward mountain resort towns near Taos.
Top Australian writers call for climate action to be at the centre of election.
‘Our ancestors are in the rocks’: Australian gas project threatens ancient carvings – and emissions blowout.
Do not use Ukraine war to defer climate goals, warns Mark Carney.
MEPs call for 20% reduction in car emissions by 2025.
US fracking boom could tip world to edge of climate disaster.
Hi-tech fixes aren’t the only way to save our soil.
Lloyd’s of London attempts to shift AGM online to avoid climate protesters.
Revealed: the ‘carbon bombs’ set to trigger catastrophic climate breakdown.
England fails to reach household waste recycling target.
Exxon doubles down on ‘advanced recycling’ claims that yield few results.
Coldplay labelled ‘useful idiots for greenwashing’ after deal with oil company.
Vanuatu’s push for legal protection from climate change wins crucial support.
John Kerry warns a long Ukraine war would threaten climate efforts.
‘Devastating’: 91% of reefs surveyed on Great Barrier Reef affected by coral bleaching in 2022.
High-profile independents say they would negotiate with either major party in event of hung parliament.
The Tories are going all out to shut down protest. Just Stop Oil activists like me will not be deterred.
‘It’s a hellfire!’: how are India and Pakistan coping with extreme heat?
Activists take court action against Boris Johnson over climate crisis.
In defence of Science Museum’s sponsors.
Pakistan orders Monday closure of schools and offices in Lahore to cut smog.
The jailing of a young climate protester is a prime example of Australia’s authoritarian drift.
Southern California could face most dangerous fire weather yet over holiday.
UN shipping summit criticised for ‘dangerous’ delay on emissions plan.
Scott Morrison ‘did a jig’ following approval of $16bn gas project labelled a ‘disaster’ by green groups.
Looking for walruses from space.
India’s apple farmers count cost of climate crisis as snow decimates crops.
Climate crisis pushes albatross ‘divorce’ rates higher – study.
Watchdog overturns ban on advert of Land Rover in forest.
Costa prize 2021 shortlists highlight climate anxiety.
Humanity’s failure to tackle climate change in the 1980s had many causes.
Cop26’s ticking clock, an inside view.
Cop26 kept the world’s 1.5C limit in reach – now we will steer it over the line.
UK will press governments to stick to climate pledges, says Cop26 president.
Want to fight for climate action but feel daunted or powerless? Try this.
Climate activist sentenced to 12 months in jail over coal train blockade in NSW.
How the chemicals industry’s pollution slipped under the radar.
If Scott Morrison acted on his strong Christian faith, he would phase out coal.
Scott Morrison circus fails to impress Lismore, a town that has lost everything.
Stranding of three whales in Corfu raises alarm over seismic testing for fossil fuels.
‘This is a fossil fuel war’: Ukraine’s top climate scientist speaks out.
Carbon dioxide will have to be removed from air to achieve 1.5C, says report.
Is a Madagascan mine the first to offset its destruction of rainforest?
Farmers’ report warns climate crisis puts Australia’s food supply at increasing risk.
Sydney floods captured on social media as roads turn into rivers and cars become boats.
Don’t let high energy prices derail UK green agenda, say climate experts.
Looking at new North Sea gas supplies may not be palatable but is pragmatic.
Johnson hints UK oil and gas output must rise to cut dependence on Russia.
The science behind Australia’s east coast floods.
After the floods, Mullumbimby is a disaster zone. But the community pulls together like no other.
Climate crisis: Amazon rainforest tipping point is looming, data shows.
Our climate solutions are failing - and Big Oil’s fingerprints are all over them.
US beef industry emerges from Biden’s climate pledges ‘relatively unscathed’.
Six promises you can make to help reduce carbon emissions.
Six key lifestyle changes can help avert the climate crisis, study finds.
Climate Council says too many leaders are silent on global heating’s role in ‘megafloods’.
How satellites may hold the key to the methane crisis.
The squit and the whale: can artificial faeces revive the ocean ecosystem?
Refusing to fly has lost me my job as a climate researcher. It’s a price worth paying.
Sunak’s U-turns make net zero harder and keep bills high, watchdog warns.
Human rights experts warn against European crackdown on climate protesters.
How criminalisation is being used to silence climate activists across the world.
Threats to Germany’s climate campaigners fuelled by politicians’ rhetoric, says activist.
Without the Southern Ocean we cannot survive on Earth. Our research must wait no longer.
Think we’re doing enough on climate? Just look at the bigger picture.
‘Shocking silence’ over climate crisis in New Zealand election campaign draws criticism.
Sport England tells its sports: funding will depend on fighting climate crisis.
Let fossil fuel profits fund crucial methane reduction.
Exxon reinforces support for fossil fuels with deal to buy shale giant for $60bn.
Severe debt burdens thwarting progress on climate and poverty, says World Bank.
Politicians, not public, drive U-turns on green agenda, says UN biodiversity chief.
Labour’s policies show party is spoiling for a fight on green issues.
Labour wants to build 1.5m homes – but how green will they be?
Human emissions made deadly South American heat 100 times more likely.
Climate crisis will make Europe’s beer cost more and taste worse, say scientists.
‘We are vulnerable’: demand for drought aid rises as El Niño takes hold in Queensland.
Coalition are ‘climate charlatans’ making false claims about Australia’s nuclear power potential, energy minister says.
Frans Timmermans urges European left to unite against right’s climate backlash.
Almost half of Valencia’s flood victims were aged over 70, figures show.
Cop29: solidarity levy on cryptocurrency could raise billions for climate action, says report.
Trump promise to repeal Biden climate policies could cost US billions, report finds.
Can southern Brazil’s deadly floods spur the shift to green energy?
Shell’s successful appeal will not end climate lawsuits against firms, say experts.
‘I have lost everything’: southern Africa battles hunger amid historic drought.
Survival of the richest: Trump, climate and the logic of the doomsday bunker.
Poorer nations need $1tn a year by 2030 in climate finance, top economists find.
‘Minimal progress’ made this year on curbing global heating, report finds.
Australia urged to increase climate goal after UK announces ambitious 81% reduction target.
Barbados PM asks Donald Trump for face-to-face meeting on climate.
Cop 29: Argentina’s negotiators ordered to withdraw from climate summit; French minister cancels trip.
Argentina withdraws negotiators from Cop29 summit.
Author Katherine Rundell donates royalties to climate charities in Trump protest.
Soaring grocery prices helped Trump to victory. The climate crisis is only going to make this worse.
‘No sign’ of promised fossil fuel transition as emissions hit new high.
Donald Trump is a blow to Australia on climate and trade. Here’s how we minimise the damage.
Florida threatened by another major late-season tropical storm.
This year has been masterclass in human destruction, UN chief tells Cop29.
The Guardian view on Cop29: 1.5C has been passed – so speed up the green transition.
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez tells climate marchers to be ‘too big and too radical to ignore’.
Guardian reporter among winners of climate journalism awards.
Key ‘Bidenomics’ architect calls for spending ‘race to the top’ on green tech.
AOC to headline rally at New York climate march ahead of UN summit.
Senior Tories warn: if we can’t offer policies to win over young, we’re ‘sunk’.
‘People feel unprotected’: Greeks lose faith in state after Storm Daniel and a summer of wildfires.
‘Towns were erased’: Libyan reporters on the ‘horrifying, harrowing’ aftermath of floods.
People in Thessaly: how have you been affected by storm Daniel?
Oil companies granted licences to store carbon under the North Sea.
Rainforest carbon credit schemes misleading and ineffective, finds report.
A non-partisan green movement is impossible today given its opponents.
What are medicanes? The ‘supercharged’ Mediterranean storms that could become more frequent.
Climate activists kick off rallies against fossil fuel in week of action in New York.
New files shed light on ExxonMobil’s efforts to undermine climate science.
The Guardian view on planetary boundaries: the Earth has limits and governments must act on them.
France investigates deaths of four Champagne workers in heatwave.
US launches $1bn tree-planting scheme to mitigate effects of climate crisis.
New fossil fuel projects ‘very unwise economic risk’ says global energy chief.
Democracies face ‘truth decay’ as AI blurs fact and fiction, warns head of Australia’s military.
Climate fatigue isn’t a sign that Europeans are in denial – it’s a sign of their fear.
‘Insanity’: petrostates planning huge expansion of fossil fuels, says UN report.
China releases methane plan as hopes rise for new climate agreement with US.
Canada’s emissions cut plan insufficient to meet targets, official report finds.
Virginia governor declares state of emergency as crews battle wildfires.
Floods hit Somalia after worst drought in four decades.
Keir Starmer dismisses king’s speech as ‘exercise in economic miserabilism’.
Greener electric car batteries among Prince William’s £1m Earthshot winners.
Anti-green measures in king’s speech are desperate political play by Sunak.
Kenya makes 13 November nationwide tree planting day a public holiday.
UK ill-prepared for havoc future storms could wreak, scientists warn.
US and UK militaries ‘owe’ combined $111bn in climate reparations – study.
Just Stop Oil protesters break glass cover of painting at National Gallery.
‘Everything is parched’: Amazon struggles with drought amid deforestation.
A California town was leveled by a wildfire. Three years on, it feels the world has forgotten.
Beef, soy and palm oil products linked to deforestation still imported into UK.
UK museums agree to collective action to tackle the climate crisis.
Fashion’s efforts to go green cancelled out by shopaholics.
Breathing, bushfires and ‘little bees’: children make art for the climate crisis.
‘Loss and damage’ deal struck to help countries worst hit by climate crisis.
‘It’s not supposed to be white’: one of the Great Barrier Reef’s healthiest reefs succumbs to bleaching.
Ukraine war threatens global heating goals, warns UN chief.
Extremes of 40C above normal: what’s causing ‘extraordinary’ heating in polar regions?
New season at London’s Donmar to include ‘shocking’ play on climate crisis.
Heatwaves at both of Earth’s poles alarm climate scientists.
Plum job: UK public asked to track fruit trees for climate study.
How wild animals can help control the climate crisis.
As floods worsen, some say it is time to rethink how Queenslanders build for the future.
Boris Johnson to launch two-year election campaign in May.
Could Ukraine war help end west’s reliance on hydrocarbons?
‘Not the future we should be going for’: the reopening of Wales’s Aberpergwm coalmine.
Tyre Extinguishers – deflating SUV tyres as a form of climate action.
Defence personnel not allowed to speak about climate ‘unless they go through Peter Dutton’s office’.
Toxic waste revealed as eroding coastlines expose old landfills.
The man who could help big oil derail America’s climate fight.
Can oysters save New York City from the next big storm?
A drowning world: Kenya’s quiet slide underwater.
How lightning killed nine Queensland cattle in one strike – and what it has to do with climate change.
Great Barrier Reef hit by sixth mass bleaching event, leading coral scientist says.
Is Australia really beating other countries at cutting emissions?
Cop26 ends with deal, but frustration over watered down coal commitment.
Cop26 ends with Glasgow climate pact.
After the failure of Cop26, there’s only one last hope for our survival.
Where should I move to in order to best survive the climate crisis?
Murals, street and protest art at Cop26.
What are the key points of the Glasgow climate pact?
A Cop26 deal was always going to be messy – just look at world trade talks.
‘It’s been a rollercoaster’: Glasgow reflects on Cop26 fortnight of change.
John Kerry: Cop26 puts us closer than ever to avoiding climate chaos.
Where voters and consumers lead on the climate crisis, businesses will have to follow.
There has been progress at Cop26, but the planet’s fate is still in the balance.
Greg Hunt won’t say if Australia will update 2030 emissions target as required, instead quoting Shakespeare.
Xi Jinping has rewritten China’s history, but even he can’t predict its global future.
‘The pressure for change is building’: reactions to the Glasgow climate pact.
Cop26 coal deal sends ‘clear message’ to Coalition.
Glasgow climate pact: leaders welcome Cop26 deal despite coal compromise.
Letters: don’t despair. There is hope for the Earth.
Five questions the Morrison government must answer now it has agreed to the Cop26 pact.
Cop26 president declares ‘fragile win’ for climate despite watered-down coal pledges.
Cash, coal, cars, trees… and choreography: how Britain kept Cop26 alive.
Flat-cap Clarkson only wants his nose in the trough.
The climate crisis and all the evil in the world drives me to despair.
Cop29: Climate finance deal agreed but talks remain deeply divided.
Cop29 agrees $1.3tn climate finance deal but campaigners brand it a ‘betrayal’.
Row over who will pay $1tn climate fund drags Cop29 talks past the deadline.
Revealed: Saudi Arabia accused of modifying official Cop29 negotiating text.
‘Catastrophic’ marine heatwaves are killing sealife and causing mass disruption to UK fisheries.
Huge election year worldwide sees weakening commitment to act on climate crisis.
‘It’s not drought - it’s looting’: the Spanish villages where people are forced to buy back their own drinking water.
Cop29: wealthy countries agree to raise climate finance offer to $300bn a year.
‘Protect the climate for whom?’: Palestinians highlight Gaza at Cop29.
Developing countries urged to reject ‘bad deal’ as Cop29 climate talks falter.
Cop 29: new draft text criticised as ‘totally unacceptable and inadequate’ – as it happened.
‘It’s really an honour’: people of oil-rich Azerbaijan welcome climate summit.
Cop29: $250bn climate finance offer from rich world an insult, critics say.
‘I find hope in sticking together and keeping each other warm’ – This is climate breakdown.
UAE urges countries to honour fossil fuels vow amid Cop29 impasse.
Greens say leaked pokies reform report ‘a huge concern’.
Sunak’s net zero U-turn is so toxic that it’s united Greens and car manufacturers against him.
Humanity has ‘opened gates to hell’ by letting climate crisis worsen, UN secretary warns.
Rishi Sunak delays some green targets and scraps others as he reveals net zero policy shift.
‘Pathetic’: what scientists and green groups think of UK’s net zero U-turn.
Australia should wipe out climate footprint by 2035 instead of 2050, scientists urge.
Cynical Rishi sells net zero targets down the river to appease the right.
Rishi Sunak’s government risks looking incapable of honouring a commitment.
Extreme weather shows need for early warning systems, says Spanish minister.
The Guardian view on diluting net zero targets: bad economics dictated by cynical politics.
Rishi Sunak rolls back net zero targets in reset of UK climate policies.
‘We need more investment, not less’: UK voters on Sunak’s net zero rollback.
UK net zero policies: what has Sunak scrapped and what do changes mean?
David Attenborough’s Cop 26 speech had no impact, says Chris Packham.
What green finance needs to speed the global transition to a net zero economy.
Biden uses executive power to create New Deal-style American Climate Corps.
The media need to cover the climate crisis as seriously as it covered Covid.
We won’t save planet by bankrupting the British people, says Braverman.
Leaders of world’s biggest polluting countries skipping UN climate summit.
UK absent from key international statement on climate action.
The tragedy of Derna: inside the 22 September Guardian Weekly.
If we can farm metal from plants, what else can we learn from life on Earth?
A beginners’ guide to planting trees – and fighting the climate crisis.
‘Capitalism didn’t understand community’: Brian Eno steps up the climate crisis battle.
Memories of bygone era could stop flash flooding in Suffolk village.
Gina McCarthy, White House climate adviser, reportedly to step down.
Could a climate of change eject the Liberals from the Perth blue-ribbon seat of Curtin?
South African police disperse crowd calling for aid after flooding.
Just Stop Oil protesters scale fuel tanker in west London to block M4 access.
Incredibly, current climate pledges could keep heating below 2C – but our work isn’t over.
Rightwing populist parties blight climate policy, study finds.
‘I dream of bees’: one boy’s encounter with a swarm in Sicily led to a lifetime’s devotion.
Our food system isn’t ready for the climate crisis.
Does Labor plan to force the top 200 energy users and producers to cut emissions by 25%?
South Africa floods: deadliest storm on record kills over 300 people.
I went on TV to explain Just Stop Oil – and it became a parody of Don’t Look Up.
‘Historic’: global climate plans can now keep heating below 2C, study shows.
TechScape: Will the video games industry ever confront its carbon footprint?
Extreme Atlantic hurricane seasons now twice as likely as in 1980s.
Fossil fuels v our future: young Montanans wage historic climate fight.
‘We all participate’ – Edward Burtynsky on photographing the epic ravaging of Earth.
Cop29: which climate finance ideas are most likely to work?
Developing world needs private finance for green transition, says Cop president.
At Cop29, we must treat the climate crisis with the same urgency as Covid – history shows it can be done.
A ‘Cop of peace’? How can authoritarian, human rights-trashing Azerbaijan possibly host that?
Monday briefing: What to expect as Cop29 starts in the shadow of Trump’s victory.
Trump, Cop29 and Ukraine – Politics Weekly Westminster.
‘Take a deep breath on being Trump-esque’: senior Coalition figures reject backbench push to rethink net zero.
Finding one trillion dollars at Cop29.
Extreme weather cost $2tn globally over past decade, report finds.
The Guardian view on the rise of eco-poetry: writing cannot ignore global heating.
Fifty-year extension for one of Australia’s biggest CO2 emitters likely after WA ditches emissions-reduction rules.
Three things with Yael Stone: ‘Please just remember – I am not talking about a vibrator’.
Who’s who at Cop29? The world leaders and others who will attend.
Thousands call for Valencia’s leader to resign over deadly floods response.
‘Devastating’: California fire victims return to sift through rubble of homes.
Tory former energy secretary facing conflict of interest claim over JCB owner links.
After Trump re-election, UK will lead efforts to save Cop29, says Miliband.
The Australians who sounded the climate alarm 55 years ago: ‘I’m surprised others didn’t take it as seriously’.
PM, it’s far better to stand firm rather than suck up to Trump.
Contempt for human rights, trashing allies: the world’s populists are rubbing their hands with glee.
Zac Goldsmith on the Tory green climbdown – Politics Weekly UK.
Jetting off to the sun? The adverts are selling you a ticket to climate disaster.
2022 was UK’s warmest year on record, says Met Office.
We are watching the brutal reality of what climate scientists told us would happen. How will we respond?
Lawsuits are key tool in delivering climate justice, says UN body.
Climate crisis up close: a week of wildfires in Rhodes.
The Guardian view on climate science: warming oceans are a warning of the chaos ahead.
‘Like a blowtorch’: Mediterranean on fire as blazes spread across nine countries.
Jim Skea to take helm at IPCC as world enters crucial climate decade.
Wholesale electricity prices down almost 60% a year on from Australia’s short-lived energy crisis.
‘You’re seeing the pain’: extreme explorer Geoff Wilson’s epic journey for the planet.
‘Living hell’: Rhodes residents criticise response to wildfires.
How can UK political parties win support for a bold green agenda?
We can’t afford to be climate doomers.
Rental pressure ‘most concerning’ aspect of inflation picture, treasurer says.
Australia must confront four megatrends that are causing rapid global disruption.
As a climate scientist, how does it feel to see your worst nightmares come true?
Can slag heaps help combat the climate crisis?
Florida ocean records ‘unprecedented’ temperatures similar to a hot tub.
Ditching green policies may not be the vote winner Sunak expects.
Ministers ‘misrepresented’ UK climate advisory body, say scientists.
WA police condemned for ‘shocking’ demand for ABC to hand over footage of climate protesters.
I find myself getting more and more bewildered each day. What is going on?
Extreme weather displaced 43m children in past six years, Unicef reports.
The Guardian view on the hottest September: the climate must be prioritised.
UK oil and gas sector ‘must do more’ to meet 2030 emissions target.
The Tories say 15-minute cities are sinister. That’s nonsense – here’s the truth.
Similar numbers of male and female turtles hatched at Coral Sea site give hope for survival of species.
‘There won’t be anything left’: Florida teens battle county over plan to loosen wetland protections.
‘Exceptional year’: Mont Blanc shrinks by another 2 metres.
UN report urges global end to fossil fuel exploration by 2030.
Australian Antarctic Division admits to ‘extraordinary overspend’ of $42m before climate projects halted.
Just Stop Oil protesters arrested after disrupting Les Misérables performance in London.
How can cities help trees survive extreme heat?
‘Gobsmackingly bananas’: scientists stunned by planet’s record September heat.
New Zealand’s crisis-hit farmers feel the gloom, potentially putting climate action in jeopardy.
Global carbon emissions from electric power may peak this year, report says.
Floods linked to increased deaths from heart and lung disease, Australian-led research shows.
Just Stop Oil protest disrupts Les Misérables performance in London.
Global heat is now ‘gobsmackingly bananas’, but there’s hope humanity can limit the climate damage.
Marine heatwave off north-east Australia sets off alarm over health of Great Barrier Reef.
‘A bad perfect storm’: the US cities where temperatures have sizzled for 70 days.
Byelection results: Keir Starmer blames Uxbridge defeat on Ulez and calls for Sadiq Khan to ‘reflect’ on it.
Going green does not cost the Earth.
Tories and big business are in the driver’s seat on climate action. Here’s what the left must do.
‘We can’t escape’: climate crisis is driving up cost of living in the US west.
Soaring temperatures may signal the decline of summer holidays to the Mediterranean.
Severe heatwaves engulf the northern hemisphere.
Smart water meters will reveal true cost of waste and leaks in UK.
Rampant heatwaves threaten food security of entire planet, scientists warn.
From Kawasaki to Phoenix: tracking a day of extreme heat around the world.
Leading Nasa climate expert says July likely to be hottest month on record.
I used to ride private planes. Now I’d rather get arrested protesting them.
Our leaders failed us on the climate emergency.
Vegan diet massively cuts environmental damage, study shows.
Consumer watchdog urged to investigate ‘misleading’ Australian oil and gas industry PR campaign.
Airlines could ditch flights to Australia to meet future emissions promises, parliament told.
Newsroom edition: why can’t we face the reality of global heating? – Full Story podcast.
Climate crisis could lead to rise of smaller bees, study finds.
Death fears for ancient Western Australian coral formation.
In Australia’s election campaign the silence on climate is deafening.
MPs to get scientific briefing on climate after activist’s hunger strike.
Solomon Islands’ security pact with China raises the question – is Australia the partner for the Pacific it thinks it is?
Using geoengineering to slow global heating risks malaria rise, say scientists.
Once You Know review – must-watch essay on climate change that tells us it’s already here.
The Coalition-News Corp attack on Labor’s energy policy is all too familiar.
Should we feel joy or despair that we’re on track to keep global heating to 2C?
Sea-farmed supercrop: how seaweed could transform the way we live.
Climate and heritage experts call on British Museum to end BP sponsorship.
Wildfire smoke in Pacific north-west erasing reductions in emissions – study.
Labor accuses Angus Taylor of ‘desperate’ climate scare campaign over energy claims.
FA deserves a red card for semi-final at Wembley.
Jamie Raskin on the climate crisis: ‘We’ve got to save democracy in order to save our species’.
‘We’re trying to turn the magnet towards optimism’: Cate Blanchett on her new climate crisis podcast.
Waterless skincare: the beauty firms tapping into ethical cleansing.
Labour split by leadership call for action against climate crisis blockades.
TS Eliot’s The Waste Land issues weather warning for our times.
Iraq’s ancient buildings are being destroyed by climate change.
Young people! It’s not their job to save the world but they are suing Europe anyway.
Rishi Sunak claims putting reducing inflation ahead of tax cuts Thatcherite and ‘deeply Conservative’.
Chancellor chooses plane over train to get from London to Manchester.
Texas prisons are as hot as ovens. I’m being cooked like a rotisserie chicken.
Autumn heat continues in Europe after record-breaking September.
Sydney smashes 1 October heat record as Victoria fights bushfires.
Vietnam detains energy thinktank chief in latest arrest of environmental expert.
The ‘climate safe rooms’ keeping low-income Australians cool during heatwaves.
Government shutdown could hurt weather disaster responses, Fema says.
‘We’re not doomed yet’: climate scientist Michael Mann on our last chance to save human civilisation.
Private jet service for rich dog owners condemned by climate campaigners.
Mass death of Amazonian dolphins prompts fears for vulnerable species.
Biden to sell three oil and gas leases over five years, angering climate advocates.
How a thinktank got the cost of net zero for the UK wildly wrong.
Biden is right to praise the auto strike. His climate agenda depends on it.
The hottest summer in human history – a visual timeline.
Weatherwatch: UK needs fludders and drookit to describe changing climate.
AFR’s power list goes deep fake with the likes of Sam Kerr and Margot Robbie to make a point.
Daniel Andrews was a visionary leader on climate change but neglected Victoria’s natural environment.
Eighteen climate activists arrested for shutdown protest in McCarthy’s office.
The Guardian view on Tory turmoil: never forget the economy.
You don’t have to be rich to live long and prosper.
A green new deal is waiting to be enacted.
The US-China climate agreement is imperfect – but reason to hope.
Is our planet overpopulated? We ask the expert.
The good, the bad and the Irn-Bru: how Cop26 played out.
It’s half-time in Humanity v Climate Crisis, and Boris Johnson is our captain.
Hundreds of global civil society representatives walk out of Cop26 in protest.
The changes to the Cop26 draft text and what they mean.
The shipping industry faces a climate crisis reckoning – will it decarbonize?
Delegates and a dinosaur: penultimate day of Cop26.
Trade officials ‘taking a chainsaw’ to EU forest protection plans.
How has Cop26 shifted the dial on the climate crisis? A visual guide.
Fossil fuel companies owe reparations to countries they are destroying.
Second Cop26 draft text: Coal phaseout remains in but some language softened.
‘Pure spin’: experts pan Coalition net-zero modelling that allows gas sector to grow.
Cop26 reveals limits of Biden’s promise to ‘lead by example’ on climate crisis.
‘The whole ecosystem was wiped’: living on the frontline of global heating.
Climate anxiety at Cop: ‘Being here makes me more worried’.
How can Britain cut emissions when the Tory party fetishises travel?
Labour appoints Rachel Kyte to climate envoy role axed by Sunak.
Who is Rachel Kyte, the UK’s new climate envoy?
‘We’re getting rid of everything’: floods destroy homes and lives in Czech Republic.
Global heating ‘doubled’ chance of extreme rain in Europe in September.
Renewables rebound after slump but must speed up to hit Labor’s 2030 energy goals.
Is the environment still top priority for the Albanese government? – Full Story podcast.
Clothes piling up in your closet? A landmark California bill would mandate brands recycle them.
Royal Academy of Engineering president Jim McDonald: this is how we power a greener future.
Swing states in US election are biggest winners in Democrats’ landmark climate bill.
The speech Keir Starmer should give: our economic model is broken – and I’ll pay for my own Arsenal tickets.
Norway is shying away from tourism – and other countries could learn from it.
Rich countries could raise $5tn of climate finance a year, study says.
Low-lying Pacific islands pin hopes on UN meeting as sea rise threatens survival.
Kerry gives scathing rating on climate action: ‘Is there a letter underneath Z?’.
Hurricane John poised to slam Mexico’s Pacific coast with 100mph winds.
Earth may have breached seven of nine planetary boundaries, health check shows.
‘Pessimism is a luxury we can’t afford’: Kumi Naidoo on fighting fossil fuels with art and culture.
With agriculture at a sharp fork in the road, Australia needs savvy farm leaders.
Amazon, Tesla and Meta among world’s top companies undermining democracy – report.
Create ‘positive tipping points’ with climate mandates, governments urged.
Albanese vows to reconsider Australia’s deportations rules in olive branch to New Zealand.
‘Triple La Niña’: Australia may face another summer of flooding rains, US expert warns.
The Wight way to have a great British holiday after giving up flying.
Climate policy dragged into culture wars as a ‘delay’ tactic, finds study.
David Littleproud’s coal case study to defend Coalition energy policy is something of a credibility stretch.
MEPs vote to end sale of petrol and diesel car by 2035 in EU.
Alok Sharma in running to be UN’s global climate chief.
We must join forces to defuse ‘carbon bombs’.
‘Gold rush’ for gas production threatens to lock in global heating.
Government failure to boost energy efficiency ‘inexplicable’, says IEA.
New Zealand farmers propose paying for emissions to tackle climate change.
How do you make a lavish spectacle sustainable? Theatre’s radical green agenda.
Flood alerts issued as more torrential rain forecast to hit China.
Activists hail Biden’s use of security powers to boost clean energy.
Food strategy for England likely to be watered down.
Climate crisis could make humans shrink in size, says fossil expert.
Let Africa exploit its natural gas reserves, says Mary Robinson.
Funding needed for climate disasters has risen ‘more than 800%’ in 20 years.
EU faces legal challenge over plan to fast-track gas projects.
Why the collapse of an Atlantic ocean current could mean La Niña becomes the norm.
Opec rails against fossil fuel phase-out at Cop28 in leaked letters.
Cop28: president says summit ‘has already made history’ as negotiations enter final days.
Cloth wrapping paper and secondhand Secret Santa: simple swaps to make your Christmas more sustainable.
‘This may be our last chance’: Cop28 talks enter final phase.
At least 475 carbon-capture lobbyists attending Cop28.
What happens if the 1.5C target for global heating is missed?
Cop28 diary: video games, solar-powered yachts and colossal fossils.
Thousands left without power in SA heatwave as other states issue alerts.
Nitrogen wars: the Dutch farmers’ revolt that turned a nation upside-down.
Talks at Cop28 set to intensify in bid to break impasse over fossil fuels.
‘Unprecedented mass coral bleaching’ expected in 2024, says expert.
Mining billionaire Andrew Forrest in scathing attack on oil and gas industry.
Cop28: highlights and lowlights so far.
Australia commits $150m to climate finance for vulnerable Pacific countries.
We need power to prescribe climate policy, IPCC scientists say.
Visualised: how all of G20 is missing climate goals — but some nations are closer than others.
All the drama from the first week of Cop28.
Carbon pricing would raise trillions needed to tackle climate crisis, says IMF.
Beach? Shopping? Sleep? How Cop28 is spending its rest day.
$700m pledged to loss and damage fund at Cop28 covers less than 0.2% needed.
They killed Freya the walrus. I am so angry about her pointless death.
Discovered in the deep: the mini cities of hairy-chested Hoff crabs.
Goats and sheep deploy their appetites to save Barcelona from wildfires.
Greens propose shutting down all Victorian coal-fired power plants by 2030.
The Guardian view on Biden’s green deal: leadership after Trump’s denialism.
Australia has a steep hill to climb on electric cars – but if ever there was a time, it’s now.
Ryanair boss is the teller of Brexit truths.
Despite climate, war and Covid, is everything actually … getting better?
Nomad Century: How to Survive the Climate Upheaval by Gaia Vince review – a world without borders.
Drought in England could carry on into new year, experts warn.
‘What’s the alternative? To give up?’: Bella Lack, the new queen of green.
The Observer view on the woeful state of England’s water industry.
Vanuatu, one of the most climate-vulnerable countries, launches ambitious climate plan.
Bottled water stations opened in Surrey after issues at treatment works.
EU firefighters rally as wildfire burns in south of France.
UK weather: extreme heat warning in place for England and Wales as near 500% increase in wildfires reported.
‘We need reservoirs built’: drought leaves UK farms begging for government aid.
Europe’s rivers run dry as scientists warn drought could be worst in 500 years.
Five tips to help pets and wildlife beat the UK’s extreme heat.
Firefighter numbers in England down 20% since 2010, analysis shows.
Hurricane Helene: dozens dead as storm pummels south-eastern US.
Grim new death records as brutal heat plagues US south-west into the autumn.
Green roofs and solar chimneys are here – experts say it’s time to use them.
Net zero or not: will the next Tory leader embrace green agenda or oppose it?
Hurricane Helene blows climate deniers Trump and Vance off course again.
‘Fear and intimidation’: how peaceful anti-pipeline protesters were hit with criminal and civil charges.
Weatherwatch: Labour’s stance on nuclear power is worryingly familiar.
Hurricane Helene intensifies to category 4 storm as it approaches Florida.
America’s first ‘carbon positive’ hotel comes to Denver – but do its climate claims stack up?
Revealed: how the fossil fuel industry helps spread anti-protest laws across the US.
Britain’s tropical rain and parched Amazon are new norms in a messed-up climate.
‘Chucky goes north’: Rochdale reacts to arrival of ‘creepy’ giant baby.
Why corn ethanol is worse for the climate than petrol.
Is the ocean becoming too acidic to sustain life?.
Biden warns that Trump’s climate denial risks a ‘more dangerous world’.
93F and no electricity: why some US utilities can cut power despite heatwaves.
Climate scientists call on Labour to pause £1bn plans for carbon capture.
Activists board coal train as Albanese government approves three coalmine expansions.
We disrupted the Labour conference because war and climate breakdown were not what Britons voted for.
Two killed in northern California wildfire as firefighters continue to battle blazes.
Catastrophe, pollution, dirty subsidies and nature capitalism: another week in the climate crisis.
Under Liz Truss, we’ll be careering into petrolhead politics while the world burns.
The super-rich ‘preppers’ planning to save themselves from the apocalypse.
How will history recall the reign of Bad King Boris?
Rich nations owe reparations to countries facing climate disaster, says Pakistan minister.
‘I want to work with everyone’: Alaska’s history-making new congresswoman.
Pakistan appeals for ‘immense’ international response to floods.
‘It’s too hot’: Los Angeles melts under its worst heatwave of the year.
Country diary: The land is scarred from a summer of wildfires.
Energy citizenship: Europe’s communities forging a low-carbon future.
Endangered whale species off Australia’s south coast is calving less often, study shows.
Aid continues to arrive in Pakistan as deaths from floods pass 1,200.
More Australians worried about climate change than ever before, but conservatives less so.
New Zealand reports warmest and wettest winter on record.
Japan’s hottest city to give out umbrellas to protect children from sun.
Wildfires erupt across California as sweltering heatwave engulfs state.
‘What if we stopped?’ How Australian arts tours are changing to save the planet.
England has had joint hottest summer on record, Met Office says.
Cop28: what just happened?.
The Guardian view on Cop28’s final text: saying the right thing – and not a moment too soon.
Rich countries are desperate to convince us their hollow Cop28 deal is a triumph. They’re lying.
Indigenous people and climate justice groups say Cop28 was ‘business as usual’.
Cop28 landmark deal agreed to ‘transition away’ from fossil fuels.
'The process is broken': climate activists have mixed feelings about Cop28 deal.
Cop28: landmark deal to ‘transition away’ from fossil fuels agreed.
‘The age of fossil fuels will end’: Australia’s Chris Bowen hails Cop28 agreement.
Andy Burnham rejects clean air zone that would charge drivers in Greater Manchester.
Good Cop, bad Cop: what the Cop28 agreement says and what it means.
Revealed: House speaker did little to fight toxic ‘burn pit’ his father campaigned against.
Greenpeace legal action alleges Woodside lied about climate performance.
‘We used to give hope to the world’: is Costa Rica’s green halo fading?
After 30 years of waiting, Cop28 deal addresses the elephant in the room.
Cop28 president hails 'historic' deal to transition away from fossil fuels.
‘First line of defence’: mangroves – and mitigation - lost in Fiji’s tourism development.
Last-ditch attempt to forge fresh Cop28 deal after original rejected.
Why ‘implementation’ matters in the global fight against the climate crisis.
Cop28: UK accused of ‘outrageous dereliction of leadership’ as climate change minister leaves conference.
Scientists and comedians join forces to get climate crisis message across.
New rule compels US coal-fired power plants to capture emissions – or shut down.
‘Outrageous’ climate activists get in the faces of politicians and oil bosses – will it work?
World’s billionaires should pay minimum 2% wealth tax, say G20 ministers.
Nature destruction will cause bigger economic slump in UK than 2008 crisis, experts warn.
Ministers of Germany, Brazil, South Africa and Spain: why we need a global tax on billionaires.
Repeated periods of heat and drought causing some trees to die – study.
Process raw materials in Africa, urges top environmentalist.
Mosquito-borne diseases spreading in Europe due to climate crisis, says expert.
We shouldn’t have any beef with conscientious farmers.
MEPs vote to leave treaty used by investors to sue over climate policies.
How divestment became a ‘clarion call’ in anti-fossil fuel and pro-ceasefire protests.
Doctors condemn suspension of retired GP over UK climate protests.
Venice access fee: what is it and how much does it cost?
US seeing rise in climate-related power outages, report says.
Woodside Energy’s climate plan rejected by shareholders in ‘globally unprecedented’ rebuke.
Birdsong once signalled the onset of spring on my street – but not this year.
The Guardian view on the Sahel and its crises: the west can still make a difference.
Retired UK GP suspended for five months after climate protests.
EU green deal at ‘very high’ risk of being killed off, says Greens co-leader.
An anxious American west sizes up historic climate bill: ‘We need every tool’.
Greens urge Labor to reject international carbon offsets as ‘accounting tricks’.
'Firenado' sparked by hot winds and wildfires burns in California.
America’s summer of floods: climate crisis fueling barrage, scientists say.
How the Amazon has started to heat the planet.
Labor to back new fossil fuel projects that ‘stack up’ economically and environmentally.
‘It’s a human rights issue’: young adults take Portugal climate crisis to court.
Record Death Valley flooding ‘a once-in-1,000-year event’.
‘This is the future’: the Oxfordshire village living without running water.
Australian electricity companies not reducing emissions in line with Paris agreement goals, study finds.
Switzerland’s melting glaciers: drone footage reveals impact of climate crisis.
UK fire and subsidence claims will rise due to extreme heat, says insurer.
Global heating has caused ‘shocking’ changes in forests across the Americas, studies find.
Fate of ‘sleeping giant’ East Antarctic ice sheet ‘in our hands’ – study.
‘Getting harder and hotter’: Phoenix fire crews race to save lives in America’s hottest city.
Everything Has Changed review – a children’s guide to navigating our new normal.
Australia should abandon goal to limit global heating to 1.5C, says gas company eyeing Beetaloo Basin.
While Biden is tackling inflation and shaping a green economy for the US, Britain is being left behind.
Parched: London, dried out.
National Trust tells of bats in distress and water features drying up in heat.
A drop in global GDP would be good for the planet.
States have legal duty to cut greenhouse emissions, says top maritime court.
What causes air turbulence and is the climate crisis making it worse?
Gina Rinehart portrait saga: largesse comes at a peculiar cost for Australia’s swimmers.
A new project promised low-income families ‘zero net energy homes’ – but they still rely on gas.
Climate victims file criminal case against bosses of oil firm Total.
‘The fear has properly set in’: how it feels to watch my home town disappear into the sea.
Delhi orders schools to close early for holidays as temperatures hit 47.4C.
‘Moai designs are getting lost’: extreme weather chips away at Easter Island statues.
More than third of Amazon rainforest struggling to recover from drought, study finds.
What keeps the world’s top climate scientists up at night? – Full Story podcast.
I invented a pedal-powered home office. Now I exercise – and save energy – at my desk.
Green activists push Biden to freeze ‘disastrous’ deepwater oil export rigs.
Britain’s public parks are a green lifeline – stop fencing them off for the summer.
The Bezos Earth fund has pumped billions into climate and nature projects. So why are experts uneasy?
New rules for NSW polluters to require ‘credible’ plan for mitigating climate impact.
Billie Eilish and Becky Hill’s grim take on growing up in today’s world.
The Guardian view on net zero: a bank-led green transition won’t work for Britain.
UK rail faces fight to stay on track as climate crisis erodes routes.
Fresh floods in Afghanistan kill at least 60 after heavy rain brings devastation.
The livestock lobby is waging war on ‘lab-grown meat’. This is why we can’t let them win.
Climate crisis threatens medical blood supply in US amid extreme weather.
Climate crisis fuelled storm that sank yacht in Sicily, say experts.
Scottish government under fire as it brings back peak rail fares.
Tuesday briefing: Why the oceans are on the frontline of the climate crisis.
The Coalition has turned its renewable energy denial into a nuclear roadmap to nowhere. It’s exhausting.
London City airport expansion given green light by ministers.
Don’t fly, take the train … if it’s running.
‘Exceptionally difficult’: grueling wildfires test the resolve of US crews.
As the world gets hotter, could helping trees migrate northwards protect them?
‘The land is becoming desert’: drought pushes Sicily’s farming heritage to the brink.
The good tourist: can we learn to travel without absolutely infuriating the locals?
‘I wanted my photos to reflect my disorientation’: rising star Anastasia Samoylova on how Florida’s hyperreal streets inspired her work.
Slow the growth, save the world? Why declining birth rates need not mean an end to prosperity.
North Carolina beach house collapses dramatically into sea.
Hurricane Ernesto pummels Bermuda with 35ft waves and high winds.
‘It’s sometimes right to disobey laws’: Doctor suspended for Insulate Britain protests speaks out.
‘Nobody ever saw anything like this before’: how methane emissions are pushing the Amazon towards environmental catastrophe.
London City airport: 54% of journeys take under six hours by train, data shows.
How millions of lives can be saved if the US acts now on climate.
Shortfall warnings cancelled as units come back online.
Jeremy Corbyn unites with direct action group Just Stop Oil.
How a severe drought in Africa caused whitethroat population to drop.
Lismore’s residents are living in limbo on the frontlines of the climate emergency.
'You can't fix a decade of inaction in 10 days': Albanese addresses Australian energy crisis.
White lies: Daily Telegraph’s excitement over bumper snow season skates over facts.
Bank group accused of exploiting loopholes and ‘greenwashing’ in climate pledge.
Over a third of US population urged to stay indoors amid record-breaking heat.
‘We wanted to offer a sense of hope’: architects build on the climate crisis.
Tell us: have you been advised to stay indoors during the US heatwave?
New data reveals extraordinary global heating in the Arctic.
Lie back and think of the apocalypse: climate crisis opera Sun & Sea.
Arizona wildfires: intense conditions send smoke plumes billowing into sky.
Sea level rise in England ‘will put 200,000 homes at risk by 2050’.
India takes tough stand at climate talks as Delhi endures brutal heatwave.
Africa must forgo gas exploration to avert climate disaster, warn experts.
The 1977 White House climate memo that should have changed the world.
Sweet as a nut: Hondurans fight drought and poverty with cashews.
We needed China deal to protect ‘domestic security’, says key Solomon Islands official.
Edinburgh international book festival announces ‘relaunch’ as sponsor row remains unresolved.
New York is suing the world’s biggest meat company. It might be a tipping point for greenwashing.
MPs accuse Charity Commission of legal breach over climate sceptic thinktank.
Blue, mysterious and arriving by the millions: the alien-like creatures blanketing US beaches.
Wind resistance: can Colombia overcome opposition to get its green energy plan back on track?
Australia should prepare for 20-year megadroughts as the climate crisis worsens, study finds.
US banks ‘sabotaging’ own net zero plans by livestock financing, report claims.
Global rainforest loss continues at rate of 10 football pitches a minute.
Just 57 companies linked to 80% of greenhouse gas emissions since 2016.
Boom in mining for renewable energy minerals threatens Africa’s great apes.
A big week for climate policy in Australia: what happened and what to make of it.
Butterfly study finds sharpest fall on record for small tortoiseshell in England.
The life and death of Rosa Reichel: the brilliant girl who was swept away.
‘Average is awesome’: California pleased with result of critical snowpack survey.
Australia’s soil to become net carbon emitter and threat to climate goals, report says.
US aiming to ‘crack the code’ on deploying geothermal energy at scale.
The case for paying ranchers to raise trees instead of cattle.
‘Awful’: climate crisis threatens to sink historic north-east golf club.
‘Headaches, organ damage and even death’: how salty water is putting Bangladesh’s pregnant women at risk.
Why is the UK facing water shortages despite record rainfall?
Canada’s 2023 wildfires released more greenhouse gases than most countries.
New Orleans solar panel program turns eateries into hurricane shelters.
South Korea’s climate law violates rights of future generations, court rules.
US leads wealthy countries spending billions of public money on unproven ‘climate solutions’.
How Exxon chases billions in US subsidies for a ‘climate solution’ that helps it drill more oil.
‘Like doomsday’: why have salmon deserted Norway’s rivers – and will they ever return?
Hundreds of thousands of dead fish blanket Greece tourist port after flooding.
‘Immoral and unacceptable’: Tuvalu calls on Australia to set urgent deadline to end fossil fuels.
‘Hyper-violent’ Typhoon Gaemi was made fiercer by climate crisis, say scientists.
Carla Denyer and the Green party: four MPs v the climate crisis.
Greece tourist port flooded with hundreds of thousands of dead fish.
‘Profit is being prioritised over climate action’ – British fashion is falling behind on sustainability.
‘The last wild places’: the Venice show about Earth’s spiralling salt marsh crisis.
This bird came back from extinction - now scientists in an aircraft are teaching it to migrate.
How a baby bust is changing our world – Full Story podcast.
This man saved his town from deadly floodwaters. So why did the US government try to stop him?
Tell us: have you been affected by the US insurance crisis?
Dear ministers, I am a climate crisis campaigner: nationalise me right now.
Poorer people bear brunt of extreme heat in Europe, say Spanish researchers.
Corn sweat: crop moisture amplifies humidity and heat in US midwest.
‘Inside an oven’: sweltering heat ravages crops and takes lives in south-east Asia.
Capacity crunch: why the UK doesn’t have the power to solve the housing crisis.
Florida sees thriving future if climate resilience managed, research finds.
Britain’s climate action plan unlawful, high court rules.
Venomous snakes likely to migrate en masse amid global heating, says study.
Cool solution: how ice-cream saved drought-hit farmers in India.
Court strikes down youth climate lawsuit on Biden administration request.
Weatherwatch: What’s driving California’s extreme weather?
‘On every roof something is possible’: how sponge cities could change the way we handle rain.
Methane emissions from gas flaring being hidden from satellite monitors.
Big oil spent decades sowing doubt about fossil fuel dangers, experts testify.
Lawyers granted more time to consider appeal.
G7 agree to end use of unabated coal power plants by 2035.
Great Barrier Reef’s worst bleaching leaves giant coral graveyard: ‘It looks as if it has been carpet bombed’.
‘It’s pretty gloomy out there’: new NFU chief Tom Bradshaw fights to give food producers a better deal.
Big oil privately acknowledged efforts to downplay climate crisis, joint committee investigation finds.
How climate policies are becoming focus for far-right attacks in Germany.
‘The Greens are our enemy’: What is fuelling the far right in Germany?
Developed countries accused of bowing to lobbyists at plastic pollution talks.
M&S invests £1m in tackling methane from burping and farting cows.
Older Swiss women win historic climate court ruling.
Human rights violated by Swiss inaction on climate, ECHR rules in landmark case.
'Only the beginning': Greta Thunberg reacts to court ruling on Swiss climate inaction.
Crabs, kelp and mussels: Argentina’s waters teem with life – could a fish farm ban do the same for Chile?
Methane from landfills is detectable from space – and driving the climate crisis.
Museum loses anti-discrimination case.
Tenth consecutive monthly heat record alarms and confounds climate scientists.
Reform UK criticised for claiming funding NHS and reaching net zero are at odds.
The Guardian view on Europe’s troubled green deal: make the case, not concessions.
US meat lobby delighted at ‘positive’ prospects for industry after Cop28.
Today we are getting an update on the Great Barrier Reef. No I don’t want to either.
World Bank’s funding of ‘hog hotel’ factory farms under fire over climate effect.
Norman Beddington obituary.
Scientists confirm record highs for three most important heat-trapping gases.
‘Simply mind-boggling’: world record temperature jump in Antarctic raises fears of catastrophe.
Elmer and the climate crisis: lost story by David McKee set to be published.
Extinction Rebellion co-founder avoids jail term for drone action near Heathrow.
The US supreme court just made yet another devastating decision for humanity.
‘Condemning everyone alive’: outrage at US supreme court climate ruling.
US supreme court rules against EPA and hobbles government power to limit harmful emissions.
Burning ban failing to protect England’s peatlands, say conservation groups.
Nation records 60 Covid deaths as SA reports first monkeypox case.
Earthly Order: ‘mercurial professor’ with urgent ideas on climate change.
‘White gold’: why shrimp aquaculture is a solution that caused a huge problem.
Snowy Alps will be a distant memory unless we act fast.
‘Our only livelihood’: Zimbabwean fishing communities fear for future as stocks dwindle.
Net zero nuance: commentary on decarbonising the grid misses the mark on batteries and nuclear.
Children aren’t the future: where have all the young climate activists gone?
Chris Bowen to announce review of carbon credits system after expert labelled it a ‘fraud’.
EU countries reach climate crisis deal after late-night talks.
Does blocking the Sydney harbour tunnel actually help the climate cause?
Government policies will not get UK to net zero, warns damning report.
Five things we have learned about the UK’s path to net zero.
Fashion brands pause use of sustainability index tool over greenwashing claims.
The environmental case for cutting down on red meat is clear.
South American monsoon heading towards ‘tipping point’ likely to cause Amazon dieback.
World’s dogs going vegan ‘would save more emissions than UK produces’.
Starbucks develops coffee seeds that can withstand climate change effects.
Pope urges rich world to make profound changes to tackle climate crisis.
Dutch politician who worked for Shell poised to become EU climate chief.
Climate scientist faces sack for refusing to fly to Germany from Solomon Islands archipelago.
New Zealand records hottest September on record.
I mourn the Sycamore Gap tree. But I also grieve for whoever chopped it down.
‘Absolutely perverse’: climate scheme could reward Australian coalmines whose emissions rise.
Depressed and branded ‘zealots’: Tory conference attacks on net zero alarm green-leaning MPs.
‘Only the rich can bear this heat’: how Dhaka is battling extreme weather.
‘End the licences’: Vanuatu oil rig registry sparks concern amid climate advocacy.
Type of storm that drenched New York is up to 20% wetter due to climate crisis.
Report claiming net zero will cost UK trillions retracted due to ‘factual errors’.
Business chiefs who criticised Labour in 2015 turn on Sunak after green U-turn.
Slow route to net zero will worsen global climate crisis, IPCC chief warns.
The big idea: can we predict the climate of the future?
Australia records driest September as fires rage in NSW, Victoria and Tasmania.
‘I’ve picked up 1.2m cigarette butts!’: five litter loathers who refuse to let it lie.
Weather tracker: heavy rain brings flash flooding to New York City.
‘Worst it’s ever been’: a threatened species alarm sounds during the election campaign – and is ignored.
One dead and thousands forced to flee as wildfires sweep across US.
After the relentless rain, South Africa sounds the alarm on the climate crisis.
Barnaby Joyce refuses to use term energy ‘transition’ because it ‘equals unemployment’.
Twitter uses Earth Day to announce ban on climate denialism ads.
The key to winning the climate debate isn’t economics: it’s health.
Strong winds fuel more than 21,000-acre Arizona wildfire.
‘This is not typical’: Arizona wildfire fighters brace for threat ‘on steroids’.
Wordle tips from me and Grandma.
‘Everyone should prep’: the Britons stocking up for hard times.
Five charts that show why our food is not ready for the climate crisis.
Albanese says he’s ‘had better days’ in first TV interview since Covid diagnosis – as it happened.
Northern Ireland faces loss of 1 million sheep and cattle to meet climate targets.
These climate scientists are full of extremely dangerous ideas – and now they’re targeting banks.
Google doodle marks Earth Day 2022 with stark images of climate crisis.
What happens when baseless claims are injected into an election campaign?
‘Green industry wants to take our land’: the Arctic paradox.
‘What we now know … they lied’: how big oil companies betrayed us all.
A close look at election campaign promises shows major parties still back fossil fuels.
‘Wall of fire’ sends residents of more than 700 homes fleeing in Arizona.
What an El Niño summer would mean for Australia – Full Story podcast.
Greta Thunberg fined for disobeying Swedish police at climate protest.
ClientEarth loses high court fight with Shell over climate strategy.
New North Sea oil and gasfields will emit as much carbon as 14m cars, report says.
‘It’s positive, not apocalyptic’: can climate change art help save the planet?
Don’t let plutocrats destroy life on Earth.
As Greece burns, we see the existential climate crisis dragged into shoddy UK party politics. That can’t happen.
As my home city of Athens burns, I can only watch in amazement as  sunseekers fly in.
G20 countries fail to reach agreement on cutting fossil fuels.
The Observer view on how the climate crisis should not be used as a political football.
Greece: thousands evacuated as wildfires ravage Rhodes.
Dropping green pledges would be ‘political suicide’, Sunak and Starmer warned.
‘What if everybody decided not to have children?’ The philosopher questioning humanity’s future.
Why aren’t we more scared of the climate crisis? It’s complicated.
Heatwave set to be Greece’s longest as extreme weather continues in Europe.
‘It’s brutal’: Europeans tell of sleepless nights and dizzy spells in heatwave.
‘A horrible way to die’: how extreme heat is killing Italian workers.
How deadly are these heatwaves – and how hot will they get?
Billionaire climate activist Mike Cannon-Brookes and wife Annie to separate.
Greece faces hottest July weekend in 50 years, forecaster says, as scores of wildfires rage.
Cop26: the final day – have we made any progress on saving the planet?
Australia shown to have highest greenhouse gas emissions from coal in world on per capita basis.
Cop26 targets too weak to stop disaster, say Paris agreement architects.
What happened at Cop26 – day 11 at a glance.
Cop26: End trillions in subsidies given to fossil fuel industry, says UN chief.
Invoking the blitz spirit to tackle Covid and the climate.
Pedalling back to childhood dreams.
Cities act on climate while nations delay, Sadiq Khan tells Cop26.
Scott Morrison’s hollow climate campaigning.
Any less water in Murray-Darling system means ‘Armageddon’ for South Australia, conservationist says.
'This is a circus': a day at Cop26 with a climate activist .
‘We are not on course’: scientists warn action must match words at Cop26.
Nature under threat: a Cop26 photographic competition.
Key Cop26 pledges could put world 9% closer to 1.5C pathway.
US-China deal and a puppet meeting: day 10 at Cop26.
We need more female leaders in the fight against climate change.
Low-carbon aviation fuels are on the horizon. But for now, activists say we need to stay grounded.
The earth’s secret miracle worker is not a plant or an animal: it’s fungi.
Madagascar is drying out – there’s no harvest, only hunger.
Failing to plan for climate refugees hands a cheap victory to the far right.
Homes alone: abandoned buildings of the Italian Apennines.
Global boiling, mass flooding and Trump: 10 big talking points for Cop29.
We can prepare for hurricanes, heatwaves and flooding – but only if we are bold at Cop29.
California fire crews make progress against wildfire that burned homes to rubble.
The Guardian view on Trump’s planet-wrecking plans: the UK government’s resolve will be tested.
Cop29 CEO filmed agreeing to facilitate fossil fuel deals at climate summit.
Climate breakdown will hit global growth by a third, say central banks.
What would a good outcome at Cop29 look like?
Odour of oil and return of Trump hang heavy over Cop29 in Baku.
Britons need greener travel options to meet net zero target.
‘Essential to act now’ to prevent chaotic climate breakdown, warns UN chief.
‘A total waste of time’: why Papua New Guinea pulled out of Cop29 and why climate advocates are worried.
Wind-driven wildfire rages in California with scores of homes charred.
Make oil and gas companies foot the bill for Valencia’s floods.
Spanish floods: before and after footage shows the scale of destruction in Valencia.
‘Used like taxis’: Soaring private jet flights drive up climate-heating emissions.
Plastic pollution is changing entire Earth system, scientists find.
Storms and wildfires kill seven in Italy as extreme weather continues.
Sunak’s tweet associating Labour with ‘criminal gangs’ labelled ‘desperate and pathetic’ by shadow cabinet minister.
Gulf Stream could collapse as early as 2025, study suggests.
Labor push for publicly owned plantations to end native forest logging.
Rhodes wildfires are climate wake-up call, says UK minister.
Both pilots die after plane crashes while fighting Greek wildfires.
Wildfires tear through Sicily forcing Palermo airport to close.
Labour urged to work with Tories to counter ‘ignorant’ climate policy attacks.
What frightens me about the climate crisis is we don’t know how bad things really are.
The Tories have laid a ‘cut the green crap’ trap for Keir Starmer. He must not fall for it.
Deadly global heatwaves undeniably result of climate crisis, scientists show.
‘I nearly cried’: Brits relive travel chaos for Rhodes wedding.
MPs urge Sunak to attend Cop28 and stay true to net zero.
Pyromaniac Rish! torches climate policy while Europe burns.
Rishi Sunak says net zero strategy must be ‘proportional and pragmatic’.
Greece wildfires: climate crisis will ‘manifest itself everywhere with greater disasters’, says Greek PM.
Liberate tree experts to save our forests.
Greece ‘at war with fire’ amid chaotic evacuation of tourists from Rhodes.
‘No one wants to be right about this’: climate scientists’ horror and exasperation as global predictions play out.
Australia’s new gas projects to struggle financially after 2030 if 1.5C climate goal met, report says.
The new wave of climate activists and the laws designed to stop them.
Extinction Rebellion protesters force Lloyd’s of London to close HQ.
Just Stop Oil protesters vow to continue until ‘all are jailed’.
Is civil disobedience OK if it’s the only way to prevent climate catastrophe?
US indigenous communities to receive $46m to address global heating.
Bleaching of marine sponges observed in warming Tasmanian waters for the first time.
‘I was enjoying a life that was ruining the world’: can therapy treat climate anxiety?
An ocean of noise: how sonic pollution is hurting marine life.
Why are climate and conservation scientists taking to the streets?
Chile announces unprecedented plan to ration water as drought enters 13th year.
What key numbers should Australian politicians – and voters – know and care about?
Children must shape the global response to climate crisis.
Spring time: why an ancient water system is being brought back to life in Spain.
Putin’s war shows autocracies and fossil fuels go hand in hand. Here’s how to tackle both.
Labor’s policies explained: where does the ALP stand on key election issues?
Six new wētā species found in New Zealand, as their habitat slowly disappears.
The insect crisis: where did all the bugs go?
‘Black carbon’ threat to Arctic as sea routes open up with global heating.
Just Stop Oil: behind the scenes with the activists.
Senior Tories express unease over Sunak’s intention to roll back climate policies.
Remember when chatting about the weather wasn’t sinister and weird?
Elephants on the march across African borders as fatalities are on the rise.
Japan swelters through ‘abnormal’ autumn, with warnings of more heat to come.
Bushfires stretch along east coast as Sydney and Hunter region warned of extreme fire danger.
Tiny Pacific island nation seeks ocean sponsors in novel conservation plan.
Sunak planning to drop net zero policies in pre-election challenge to Labour.
How Libya’s floods hit the worst place at the worst time.
‘Missing half the equation’: scientists criticise Australia over approach to fossil fuels.
Global heating made Greece and Libya floods more likely, study says.
Arkansas child dies of rare brain-eating amoeba after playing at country club.
Climate action must respond to extreme weather driving health crisis, says WHO.
Libya: flood survivors protest against authorities as thousands still missing in Derna.
Tui extends Greece and Turkey season to November after extreme summer heat.
The BoM has finally declared an El Niño. What does it mean – and why did it take so long?
Could our future be going up in flames? It’s not all crystal ball gazing.
European governments shrinking railways in favour of road-building, report finds.
Climate activists block Federal Reserve bank, calling for end to fossil fuel funding.
London facing 45C days ‘in foreseeable future’, mayor Sadiq Khan warns.
Tens of thousands in NYC march against fossil fuels as AOC hails powerful message.
Climate crisis is ‘not gender neutral’: UN calls for more policy focus on women.
California to require big firms to reveal carbon emissions in first law of its kind.
Climate crisis costing $16m an hour in extreme weather damage, study estimates.
How Tories’ green hostility will hinder a future Labour government.
Working class deserting Tories in droves under Rishi Sunak, poll finds.
Pocketless storage for handkerchiefs.
Mark McGowan phone call allegation puts fossil fuel influence in WA under spotlight.
A court among the coconut palms: when justice came to visit the Torres Strait.
A hotter world forcing people on the move needs vision, not Suella Braverman’s rabble-rousing words.
‘The history of the climate movement is very white’: how youth campaigners took on a mining giant and won.
Recent fires have been a triggering reminder of previous disasters. Our resilience is being tested yet again.
‘Fires everywhere’: the Australian firefighters on the frontline of the new global Flame Age.
Kew Gardens’ Alexandre Antonelli: ‘We may be losing species before we even notice them’.
‘I wasn’t the obvious choice’: meet the oil man tasked with saving the planet.
‘This is political expediency’: how the Tories turned on 15-minute cities.
Building firms tell Sunak undoing green policies will hit housing investment.
What’s worse than ‘gobsmackingly bananas’? You really don’t want to know.
Hollywood ending: could Leonardo DiCaprio’s activism prove his role of a lifetime?
I helped fund Just Stop Oil, but no more. The ballot box will be more powerful than disruption.
Mung beans, bunnies and the Muppets: PM’s green rhetoric ‘insulting and divisive’.
Cop26 ends in climate agreement despite India watering down coal resolution.
Cop26 reactions: ‘Rich nations have kicked the can down the road’.
Cop26: the goal of 1.5C of climate heating is alive, but only just.
What is ‘loss and damage’ and why is it critical for success at Cop26?
Few changes as Cop26 draft text homes in on make-or-break issues.
If global finance can step up to the net-zero challenge, governments surely can.
Third draft of Cop26 text retains key goal of limiting global heating to 1.5C.
Should I have children? Weighing parenthood amid the climate crisis.
We’re going to need a bigger planet: the problem with fixing the climate with trees.
Pressure mounts on countries to strike Cop26 deal as talks pass deadline.
Cop26: Australia accused of ‘hiding’ while opposing deal needed to limit catastrophic climate breakdown.
Backed by Climate 200’s $3.6m war chest, independent challengers circle Coalition seats.
Scott Morrison’s net zero modelling reveals a slow, lazy and shockingly irresponsible approach to ‘climate action’.
Cop26 in extra time as leaders warn of the deadly cost of failure.
A look at the Coalition's love-hate relationship with the Clean Energy Finance Corporation.
Cop26: deadline for agreeing crucial climate deal passes but negotiations set to continue.
Amazon birds shrink but grow longer wings in sign of global heating.
Australia named ‘colossal fossil’ of Cop26 for ‘appalling performance’.
Labour MP Graham Stringer to join Nigel Farage at anti-net zero rally.
Legal eagles: how climate litigation is shaping ambitious cases for nature.
In the Sharma decision the federal court says: we see the climate risk but cannot act.
Is battling back-to-back disasters distracting us from fighting the climate crisis?
Rebellion review – thoughtful documentary telling the real story behind Extinction Rebellion.
Scotland not adapted to climate crisis, says advisory committee.
The Tories railed against ‘green crap’. Why trust them to solve the energy crisis now?
Shell directors sued for ‘failing to prepare company for net zero’.
Manchin ‘very reluctant’ on electric cars in ominous sign for Biden’s climate fight.
Sussan Ley does not have duty of care to protect young from climate crisis, appeal court rules.
‘So angry’: climate activists distraught after court reverses climate change 'duty of care' ruling.
The floods prove volunteers can only do so much when the government goes awol.
Yorkshire’s lost ‘Atlantis’ nearly found, says Hull professor.
‘It’s bigger than just New England’: mayor during black summer bushfires to run against Barnaby Joyce.
Sun sets on Mexico’s paradise beaches as climate crisis hits home.
Environmental activists disrupt Bafta red carpet in London.
Climate protesters storm Baftas and sit on red carpet as A-listers walk past.
Mayor defends planning decisions ‘made 150 years ago’ amid calls for flood insurance support.
Emergency chiefs slam Coalition’s ‘fumbling’ response to floods, claiming they were warned of a potential crisis.
Ban Ki-moon warns UK against fracking as world stands at ‘dangerous’ point.
Sri Lanka and Bangladesh cricketers skip training as smog descends on Delhi.
Will the planet outlive my dying laptop?
Politicians who delay climate action must live with consequences, says WHO expert.
Confronting the reality of climate emergency.
Storm Ciarán: six dead in Italy; Spain evacuates 800 as wildfire spreads.
Does the Reserve Bank have a steady hand on the tiller? – Australian Politics podcast.
Never fly again? Go vegan? It was too hard. But I still cut my emissions by 61% and it made life simpler and better.
Climate crisis talks resume on ‘loss and damage’ funding for poorest countries.
UN to seek assurances UK will not renege on net zero pledge.
Great Barrier Reef annual coral spawning begins east of Cairns.
Storm Ciarán: deaths reported across Europe while UK faces major disruption  –  as it happpened.
World ill-prepared to stop climate crisis reversing progress on health, says study.
Action to protect against climate crisis ‘woefully inadequate’, UN warns.
Wiggles ‘deeply disappointed’ over use of Hot Potato to deter homeless people.
Flash droughts are likely to become increasingly common, say researchers.
‘All we can do now is run away’: is time up for the sinking Colombian islands of San Bernardo?
Global heating is accelerating, warns scientist who sounded climate alarm in the 80s.
The ex-PM who thinks he’s an expert on climate change.
Only 2% of freight between Melbourne and Sydney goes by rail – putting Australia’s emissions targets at risk.
UK will seek global coalition for climate action, says Ed Miliband as Cop29 ends.
‘Travesty of justice’: Cop29’s controversial deal.
Cop29 deal fails to consider inflation so is not tripling of target, economists say.
Time to ditch the cliches about older people.
Storm Bert: drone footage shows extent of flooding at English holiday park.
I’m glad we got a deal at Cop29 – but western nations stood in the way of a much better one.
Storm Bert: forecasters and politicians criticised after devastating floods.
Multilateralism faces a toxic brew of debt, climate crisis and war. It’s time for a reboot.
Live at the Port of Newcastle, it’s aquatic ecolarrikins vs gigantic fossil fuel death ships.
A cool flame: how Gaia theory was born out of a secret love affair.
A mystery in Finnish Lapland, and what it means for the climate crisis.
As Cop29 wraps up and the climate crisis gathers pace, Australia’s dash for gas is confounding.
Australia urged to do more on climate crisis as activists rue trillion-dollar Cop29 funding gap.
The Guardian view on Cop29: poor-world discontent over a failure of rich countries to deliver.
Cop29 climate finance deal criticised as ‘travesty of justice’ and ‘stage-managed’.
Developing countries condemn 'insufficient' Cop29 deal.
The silver lining at a disappointing Cop29? It showed climate progress can survive Trump 2.0.
Cop29 climate finance deal likely to be followed by equally bitter battles.
Biden must Trump-proof US democracy, activists say: ‘There is a sense of urgency’.
Cop29’s new carbon market rules offer hope after scandal and deadlock.
‘They challenged the Communist monopoly’: Vietnam regime turns on its climate champions.
Water level at Amazon port in Brazil hits lowest point in 121 years amid drought.
What you need to know about the loophole hiding the extent of US wildfire pollution.
A hero for refusing the easy flight out.
‘No normal seasons any more’: seed farmers struggle amid the climate crisis.
Revealed: how a little-known pollution rule keeps the air dirty for millions of Americans.
Could superpowered plants be the heroes of the climate crisis?
‘They don’t go for jewellery any more’: Olive oil theft on the rise in Greece.
‘A dangerous game’: Republican chaos and indecision as crises shake the world.
The lost world: Venezuela’s unique tepui frogs face new perils.
Fear of reprisals prevent people calling out employers on climate, says charity.
IMF should give poor countries $300bn a year to fight climate crisis, says Joseph Stiglitz.
More than £2bn of UK foreign climate aid channelled through consultancies since 2010.
Peru’s melting glaciers bring new harvests – and fears for the future.
Warmer winters keeping Bewick’s swans away from Britain.
Antarctica has lost 7.5tn tonnes of ice since 1997, scientists find.
Are Labour’s policies green enough to swing the next election?
Climate action must focus on women’s health.
Hailstorm frequency has increased by 40% around Sydney and Perth since 1979.
Climate expert ‘sacked’ after refusing flight to Germany over carbon emissions.
Nigel Farage’s hard-right faction won Brexit. Now net zero is in its sights.
Tories plan big expansion of wind farms ‘to protect national security’.
‘Whoever is Labour leader has my sympathy’: Ed Miliband on Starmer, the climate crisis and mislaying the Ed Stone.
Tens of thousands take part in climate protests across France.
‘The LNP are feeling threatened’: the growing ambition of independents challenging Coalition MPs.
Roads ripped apart by NSW and Queensland floods must be rebuilt stronger, councils say.
Sydney biennale 2022: amid floods arrives art with an urgent climate message.
Greenwashing UK fashion firms to be named and shamed by watchdog.
Can turning down our radiators turn up the heat on Vladimir Putin?
As we do everything we can to support Ukraine, Britain has the chance to be a better country.
Millions suffering in deadly pollution ‘sacrifice zones’, warns UN expert.
How oil companies rebranded deceptive climate ads as ‘free speech’.
Climate change fundamentally affecting European birds, study shows.
Is super-polluting Pentagon’s climate plan just ‘military-grade greenwash’?
Unesco to visit Great Barrier Reef as coral bleaching risk rises.
In Lismore, it’s getting harder to tolerate climate inaction – and Morrison’s cowardly silence spoke volumes.
What are conservative commentators saying about the floods and climate?
‘The lessons haven’t been learned’: who should lead Australia’s disaster recovery response?
In a disaster zone on the frontline of the climate crisis, the PM resorts to self-serving pontification.
Green credentials of world’s largest investor questioned over oil industry emails.
Meet the ‘inactivists’, tangling up the climate crisis in culture wars.
Climate crisis posing growing risk to the homeless, UK charities tell ministers.
‘Vandals’: Victoria, Queensland fume over federal climate intervention.
Developers challenged over carbon footprint of new buildings in UK.
Can the Gambia turn the tide to save its shrinking beaches?
‘Atmospheric rivers’ threaten new floods in hard-hit Washington state.
Australia’s spy agency predicted the climate crisis 40 years ago – and fretted about coal exports.
‘It’s critical’: can Microsoft make good on its climate ambitions?
Bulb chief used government advisory role to ‘brief against’ rivals.
‘Taste this, it’s salty’: how rising seas are ruining the Gambia’s rice farmers.
Wentworth campaign: Allegra Spender says Dave Sharma needs to ‘get out of the way’ after climate failures.
Great Barrier Reef: how a spectacular coral spawning event is helping to breed heat-tolerant corals.
A new golden age of British rail depends on total electrification.
Extinction Rebellion blockades Amazon UK hubs on Black Friday.
Some climate campaigners praise Biden for releasing emergency oil reserves.
Be reassured: the world is not as divided as we might think.
What happens when America’s coal plants die?
‘Every tree counts’: Dutch come up with cunning way to create forests for free.
Climate emergency accelerates F1’s efforts to clean up its image.
Blowing the house down: life on the frontline of extreme weather in the Gambia.
Pressure and pay drive exodus of US wildfire fighters: ‘The fatigue is real’.
Young people to take 32 European countries to court over climate policies.
BP must not backtrack on climate action after CEO’s exit, say campaigners.
Experts call for global moratorium on efforts to geoengineer climate.
ADF’s fighting ability could be ‘degraded’ by burden of responding to natural disasters, inquiry says.
Sydney smoke: air quality among worst in world due to hazard-reduction burns.
The Guardian view on Libya’s floods: humans, not just nature, caused this disaster.
Earth ‘well outside safe operating space for humanity’, scientists find.
Most Americans experienced record heat this summer: ‘It’s just daily life now’.
Antarctica may have entered ‘new regime’ of low sea ice as global warming ramps up.
Jim Chalmers accuses Peter Dutton of being ‘chief propagandist’ of no campaign amid heated voice referendum debate.
EU states must bridge ‘planning gap’ in order to hit climate targets, report warns.
More than a fifth of UK shoppers’ favourite grocery items at climate breakdown risk.
‘Disastrous beyond comprehension’: 10,000 missing after Libya floods.
Questions raised over deadly impact of Storm Daniel in Libya.
Albanese government not doing enough on climate crisis, majority of Labor voters tell poll.
Cyclone Tracy caused $200m of damage. A repeat now would cost $7.4bn, Australian insurers say.
‘Beginning of the end’ of fossil fuel era approaching, says IEA.
US behind more than a third of global oil and gas expansion plans, report finds.
The world’s biggest carbon capture facility is being built in Texas. Will it work?
Green party says Starmer must do more to cut energy use to meet net zero targets.
Spain braces for new storms as flooding disaster’s political fallout continues.
Cancel drilling of Rosebank oilfield, activists urge Scottish court.
Starmer confirms that the UK has committed to an 81% cut to emissions by 2035.
UK commitment to cut greenhouse gas emissions must be ‘starting point, not finish line’, climate advisers say – Cop29 day two, as it happened.
US oil and gas firms to face federal fee for methane emissions in new EPA rule.
We can hit UK’s carbon target without telling people how to live their lives, says Starmer.
2024 has been ‘masterclass in climate destruction’, says UN chief.
Shell defeats landmark climate ruling ordering cut in carbon emissions.
UK has ‘huge opportunity’ to lead on green investment, Starmer says.
Trump picks ally Lee Zeldin as environment chief and vows to roll back rules.
Keir Starmer to unveil ambitious new UK climate goal at Cop29.
Critics say approval of ‘climate credits’ rules on day one of Cop29 was rushed.
Carbon credit trade rules approved, breaking lengthy deadlock – Cop29 day one, as it happened.
US climate envoy says fight against climate crisis does not end under Trump.
Finding one trillion dollars at Cop29 – Full Story podcast.
Trump 2.0 could make even the most optimistic climate observers cynical – but it’s not the whole story.
Work to regulate one of Australia’s biggest sources of carbon dioxide stalls, FoI documents reveal.
This is climate breakdown: a new series exploring the real impacts on people.
‘Husband eaters’: the double loss of Bangladesh’s ostracised tiger widows.
How do we define climate responsibility? Woodside has no answer.
‘Water everywhere’: Shropshire farmers race to salvage harvest after record rain.
The world has a chance to end plastic pollution – the petrochemical giants mustn’t spoil it.
Deep Water: The World in the Ocean by James Bradley review – a compelling sea view of civilisation.
First Nations woman one of seven global winners of prestigious Goldman prize for environmental activism.
‘My country would disappear’: climate crisis could force Torres Strait Islanders from homes within 30 years.
A cup of tea and a biscuit for the end of the world.
‘Washout winter’ spells price rises for UK shoppers with key crops down by a fifth.
Taxing big fossil fuel firms ‘could raise $900bn in climate finance by 2030’.
The Guardian view on the price of chocolate: cocoa producers face bitter truths.
Heroism, sacrifice, defeat? The enduring mystery of George Mallory’s final Everest attempt.
‘Woke’ isn’t dead – it’s entered the mainstream. No wonder the right is furious.
Sadiq Khan’s green credentials may be critical in London mayoral election.
UN-led panel aims to tackle abuses linked to mining for ‘critical minerals’.
Barclays accused of greenwashing over financing for Italian oil company.
Trump will dismantle key US weather and science agency, climate experts fear.
New EU nature law will fail without farmers, scientists warn.
‘Climate denial’ ad pulled from The Australian after being labelled ‘deceptive’.
Wave of exceptionally hot weather scorches south and south-east Asia.
Heat-related deaths have increased by 117% in the US since 1999 – report.
‘I was frustrated’: The woman who told Labour it didn’t need to spend £28bn on green investment.
Green groups urge Ed Miliband to scrap Drax subsidies.
‘These ideas are incredibly popular’: what is degrowth and can it save the planet?
Campaigners sue EU over ‘grossly inadequate’ 2030 climate targets.
UN chief: there is no way to keep 1.5C alive without a fossil fuels phase-out.
‘A crisis entirely of humanity’s making’: UN chief issues climate SOS on trip to Pacific.
Australia’s early spring brings budding flowers, chirping birds – and climate alarm.
Albanese government accused of trying to ‘bury bad news’ about health of Great Barrier Reef.
UN chief to push for more climate change action at Pacific leaders’ summit.
Becoming Earth by Ferris Jabr review – our planet: a living, breathing, mutating miracle.
Police acting as ‘private security’ for Drax power station, say climate activists.
‘Huge benefits’ in greater debt relief for lower income countries, study finds.
Caribbean islands hope UN court will end ‘debt cycle’ caused by climate crisis.
Bacteria helping to extract rare metals from old batteries in boost for green tech.
Pacific nations aren’t asking for favours. They just want Australia to meet the moment on climate justice.
Dutch beach restaurants add sunscreen ‘shots’ to menu in fight against cancer.
It’s August 2024 – and our world is at a turning point. Here’s what we should do now.
Resorts on Spain’s Costa Brava struggle with invasion of jellyfish as seas warm.
Democrats have a month to revive the climate deal our planet needs.
Explaining the ‘unusually extreme’ rain and weather that caused Sydney’s fourth major flood in two years.
Methane much more sensitive to global heating than previously thought – study.
Australia is woefully unprepared for this climate reality of consecutive disasters.
NSW floods: Sydney braces for two more days of flooding as state smashed by rain and wind.
Being axed is not a refreshing change.
Spain and Portugal suffering driest climate for 1,200 years, research shows.
Events like Italian glacier collapse likely to increase as planet heats.
Parts of NSW flood again from torrential rain.
Environment Agency chief hits out at greenwashing by businesses.
‘Industrial revolution’: Australia’s decarbonisation needs rigorous management, thinktank warns.
Environmentalists condemn Biden administration’s offshore drilling plan.
‘Perfect storm’ of crises is widening global inequality, says UN chief.
Australian company secures $700,000 deal for carbon capture and storage machine.
As Labor enacts its emissions reduction target, will the climate truce survive?
A week of Blockade Australia climate protests in Sydney tests tough new laws.
Shop around, switch things off and seal the gaps: a renter’s guide to energy efficiency.
The Guardian view on Biden’s risky gamble: betting on lowering oil prices.
Western Australia’s EPA urges 50-year extension of country’s most polluting gas project.
Brand new bang: Lake Tahoe resort scraps July 4 fireworks for drones.
‘It’s a sun trap’: climate crisis brings boomtime for British wine.
Dinosaur data: can the bones of the deep past help predict extinctions of the future?
Tory candidate for London mayor has Trumpian attitude to climate, says Khan.
Weatherwatch: how reducing air pollution adds to climate crisis.
Labour may fail to grab target seats as young voters turn away over Gaza and climate.
Australia could reach an ‘ambitious’ emissions cut of up to 75% by 2035, advisers tell Labor.
Carbon price should be set at $70 a tonne and rise six-fold by mid-century, says AEMC.
Climate target organisation faces staff revolt over carbon-offsetting plan.
Flooded farms in England refused compensation as ‘too far’ from river.
Biden races to commit billions to climate action as election looms.
Great Barrier Reef suffering ‘most severe’ coral bleaching on record as footage shows damage 18 metres down.
Great Barrier Reef suffering ‘most severe’ coral bleaching on record.
The senior Swiss women who went to court over climate change, and won.
World’s coal power capacity rises despite climate warnings.
Looking forward to a bold green future? Just don’t forget the here and now.
Canada risks more ‘catastrophic’ wildfires with hot weather forecast.
World Bank must take ‘quantum leap’ to tackle climate crisis, UN expert says.
Octopuses could lose eyesight and struggle to survive if ocean temperatures keep rising, study finds.
Swapping red meat for herring, sardines and anchovies could save 750,000 lives, study suggests.
Taxing the wealth of UK’s richest would raise billions for public services.
US delivery workers swelter in record heat – many without AC in their vans.
Australia’s ski season could melt away early as snowfall drops to nearly half the average.
Massive Attack castigate music industry over climate inaction: ‘We don’t need to talk. We need to act’.
Is this fake spring, pre-spring or the sequel to fake spring?
Visits to Japan’s only Shinto weather shrine surge as climate crisis bites.
‘Heat engine’ fuelled by climate crisis bringing blast of summer weather to Australian winter.
Tackling the taboo of population growth.
Brazil sends 1,500 firefighters to combat Amazon forest blazes.
Environmental activists urge Kamala Harris to go big on climate: ‘She’s got to seize the moment’.
We must restore nature to avoid global catastrophe, warns biodiversity summit president.
Caribbean nations still facing humanitarian crisis weeks after Hurricane Beryl destruction.
Getting an allotment totally changed my summer – and radically altered my relationship with food.
How climate crisis made this UK summer feel like a letdown.
About 500,000 trees cut down at site of Tesla gigafactory near Berlin.
The Crunch: robots slicing tomatoes and climate tipping points.
Rubbish and disease could disrupt Antarctic ecosystems as ice buffers melt, study finds.
Heat deaths in Europe may triple by end of the century, study finds.
Pregnant people and fetuses not being protected from wildfire risks – report.
The Guardian view on meat: we need to eat less of it.
Millions broil as southern US heat dome causes record highs and wildfires.
Risk of catastrophic megafloods has doubled in California, study finds.
Tanya Plibersek on Labor’s plans for Australia’s environment.
Truss and Sunak woo Tory members with lukewarm stance on climate.
UK heatwave: wildfires break out across England.
As drought blights the UK, our politicians have their heads buried in the sand.
England drought: how the country has been affected.
What happens when drought is declared by the UK government?
Can Biden’s climate bill undo the fossil fuel industry’s decades of harm?
Drought declared across eight areas of England.
The Democrats’ climate bill is a historic victory. But we can’t stop here.
Al Gore hails Biden’s historic climate bill as ‘a critical turning point’.
Britain’s wetlands are the key to saving us from drought, wildfires and even floods.
Democrats celebrate ‘historic’ climate bill: Politics Weekly America.
Nuclear war no longer seems to scare us as much as it used to – have we become accustomed to the unthinkable?
Suella Braverman received £10,000 leadership bid donation from prominent climate denier’s firm.
Sainsbury’s and Tesco halt disposable barbecues sales amid wildfire risk.
Swiss mountain pass will lose all glacier ice ‘in a few weeks’ for first time in centuries.
UK weather: drought expected to be declared in parts of England on Friday.
French PM sounds climate crisis alarm as ‘ogre-like’ wildfire rages.
Cumbria coalmine decision delayed again as critics condemn ‘zombie’ No 10.
Nearly 175 arrested as climate protesters target France’s TotalEnergies and key investor.
‘Kitty cat’ storms hitting US heartland are growing threat to home insurance.
UK importing more bricks than ever and carbon cost is rising, study reveals.
Scientists transplant soil fungi in race to save world’s threatened orchids.
Weather tracker: Pakistan heatwave continues wild changes in weather patterns.
‘We’re up for this fight’: Labour plans to make climate key focus of election.
Last summer’s temperature rise could be worse than we thought.
Snow worries: Australia’s ski resorts turn to snowmakers with slopes bare ahead of winter.
Young Alaskans sue state over fossil fuel project they claim violates their rights.
Alarm as German climate activists charged with ‘forming a criminal organisation’.
Can ‘rock weathering’ help tackle the climate crisis and boost farming?
Sunak backtracked on climate policies – and voters may punish him.
Half of world’s mangrove forests are at risk due to human behaviour – study.
Alaskan rivers turning orange due to climate change, study finds.
Displaced by climate disasters, ageing Americans struggle to find housing.
Heat stress: how soaring temperatures are taking their toll on migrant workers in India’s garden city.
Warming climate is turning rivers rusty with toxic metals.
‘Never-ending’ UK rain made 10 times more likely by climate crisis, study says.
TV meteorologist attacks Ron DeSantis over Florida’s ‘don’t say climate change’ law.
Election of Donald Trump ‘could put world’s climate goals at risk’.
Easter egg prices soar as cocoa crops are hit by climate crisis and exploitation.
Black summer fires: a veteran ecologist says Australia’s bushfire modelling is flawed. Others disagree.
‘He took five bullets and returned to work on plankton’: the double lives of Ukraine’s Antarctic scientists.
Copernicus online portal offers terrifying view of climate emergency.
It takes a village: the Indian farmers who built a wall against drought.
Vegetables are losing their nutrients. Can the decline be reversed?
‘People mustn’t feel meat is being taken away’: German hospitals serve planetary health diet.
Sinking US cities increase risk of flooding from rising sea levels.
Surge of new US-led oil and gas activity threatens to wreck Paris climate goals.
Macron calls proposed EU-Mercosur trade pact ‘very bad deal’ lacking strong climate commitments.
Two years after deadly floods in Appalachia, a community hopes lawsuit will bring change.
Can millennials unscrew themselves? Part 5 – Full Story podcast.
Ross River virus: more than 1,500 cases recorded in Queensland as mosquito numbers spike.
Millions go hungry as a billion meals binned every day, says UN report.
Extreme heat summit to urge leaders to act on threat from rising temperatures.
Secondhand clothing on track to take 10% of global fashion sales.
‘Everybody has a breaking point’: how the climate crisis affects our brains.
How heat damages the DNA of endangered purple-crowned fairy wrens.
Wildfires erupt in Arizona and California in foreboding sign of intense summer.
Sky News Australia is a global hub for climate misinformation, report says.
Plan to scrap Natural England will disrupt net zero targets, experts say.
Spain and southern France hit by second extreme heat event of year.
As Phoenix swelters, the nights are even worse than the boiling days.
The Guardian view on an Indian summer: human-made heatwaves are getting hotter.
The race against time to breed a wheat to survive the climate crisis.
Biden faces anger over huge New Mexico wildfire sparked by federal burns.
Why bankers close their ears to the ‘climate nut jobs’ talking about the end of the world.
Octopus Energy’s Greg Jackson: ‘Climate change is no longer this vague thing’.
Thirty years of climate summits: where have they got us?
New York has a chance to generate all its electricity from clean energy by 2030.
Climate crisis is ‘battering our economy’ and driving inflation, new book says.
Punishing heatwave expected across the US south-west this weekend.
‘Worse than half-baked’: Johnson’s food strategy fails to tackle cost or climate.
Spain in grip of heatwave with temperatures forecast to hit 44C.
Disabled people being ‘systematically ignored’ on climate crisis, says study.
It’s not your imagination, US summers are hotter than ever before.
‘We ain’t in science-fiction any more!’ Laura Dern on the return of Jurassic Park.
Amid Australia’s chaotic climate politics, the rooftop solar boom is an unlikely triumph.
Over 120 dead and a million without power after ‘historic’ Hurricane Helene.
Australia’s ‘immoral’ coalmine decision akin to drowning Pacific neighbours, Tuvalu climate minister declares.
More than 200 dead in Nepal floods, as parts of Kathmandu left under water.
‘I’ve never worn trousers up a mountain and I never will’: a Bolivian cholita climber on sexism and her next summit.
The deep history of British coal – from the Romans to the Ratcliffe shutdown.
Scientists criticise UN agency’s failure to withdraw livestock emissions report.
Hurricane Helene’s ‘historic flooding’ made worse by global heating, Fema says.
End of an era as Britain’s last coal-fired power plant shuts down.
Our leaders are collaborators with fossil fuel colonialists. This is the source of our communal dread.
Melting glaciers force Switzerland and Italy to redraw part of Alpine border.
This winding LA highway is notoriously treacherous. Extreme weather is making it worse.
Leonard Leo-linked group attacking efforts to educate judges on climate.
Force companies to report their food waste, say leading UK retailers.
The UK will get hotter and drier for plants … except in Manchester.
Brazil’s ‘Paradise’ on fire: ‘The forest is burning. Animals are burning. Everything’s burning’.
Could pawpaw, the US-native fruit, become the new kiwi or mango?
If Trump wins the election, US parks and wildlife will face a new age of mining.
‘We don’t think about energy bills any more’: how a heat pump changed a couple’s lives.
UK climate envoy to keep role at charity whose founders invest in fossil fuels.
One in four billionaire Cop28 delegates made fortunes from polluting industries.
Peter Betts obituary.
UK minister departs Cop28 as climate talks reach crisis point.
UK government unlikely to support climate levy on airline tickets, says minister.
At Cop28 it feels as if humanity’s shared lifeboat is sinking. There are only hours left to act.
UK workers ‘should get day off’ if workplace is hotter than 30C.
WTO chief urges countries to prioritise subsidies that tackle climate crisis.
Revealed: more than 160 representatives with climate-denying track records got Cop28 access.
Paradise cost: the Pacific islands changing the future of tourism.
Cop28: Australia, US and UK say they won’t sign agreement that would be ‘death certificate’ for small islands.
California children sue EPA over ‘intentional’ role in climate crisis.
Cop28 draft climate deal criticised as ‘grossly insufficient’ and ‘incoherent’.
Elements of new Cop28 text are ‘fully unacceptable’, say EU climate chiefs.
Quarter of world’s freshwater fish at risk of extinction, according to assessment.
In the eye of the climate storm: hurricane-hit Dominica bets on a resilient eco-future.
‘Megayachts’ are environmentally indefensible. The world must ban them.
Chris Bowen says agreement on global fossil fuel phase out central to Australia’s renewable energy plans.
Fossil fuel phase-out will ‘not avert climate breakdown without protections for nature’.
The climate crisis will amplify the UK’s existing health inequalities.
Climate crisis could cause 10,000 extra UK deaths a year by 2050, says health body.
Urgent aid appeal launched as satellite images show a third of Pakistan underwater.
Polling shows that US voters favor climate bills – yet assume fellow Americans don’t.
Night-time heat is killing crops. Scientists are rushing to find resilient plants.
Eating meat isn’t a crime against the planet – if it’s done right.
‘Train bragging’: Swedish service joins glorious resurgence of sleeper travel.
With Scott Morrison gone, Sussan Ley has taken up the task of baseless EV bashing.
Brutal heatwave scorches US west, sparking fires and health warnings.
‘We’re going to pay in a big way’: a shocking new book on the climate crisis.
Pakistan not to blame for climate crisis-fuelled flooding, says PM Shehbaz Sharif.
Burn out: Inside the 2 September Guardian Weekly.
Pakistani diaspora groups and UK charities raise up to £1m for flood relief.
Historic monuments resurface as severe drought shrinks Spain’s reservoirs.
This age of abundance must come to an end to save the planet.
‘It’s getting extremely hard’: climate crisis forces China to ration electricity.
Timber cities ‘could cut 100bn tons of CO2 emissions by 2100’.
Guterres: Pakistani people facing a 'monsoon on steroids'.
US fossil fuel firm sues insurer for refusing to cover climate lawsuit.
UN and Pakistan appeal for $160m to help flooding victims.
US to see renewable energy boom in wake of historic climate bill.
It is 100 days until Cop15 – and the omens are good for a global plan to protect nature.
‘I felt this was an abuse of power’: the climate activist who took on the law and won.
Sunak’s weakening of climate targets ‘retrograde’, says former Tory minister.
Biden marks Earth Day with $7bn ‘solar for all’ investment amid week of climate action.
Net zero has become unhelpful slogan, says outgoing head of UK climate watchdog.
Students at US universities file legal complaints over fossil fuel investments.
‘Fields are completely underwater’: UK farmers navigate record rainfall.
Australia’s largest super fund joins protest vote against Woodside’s climate plans.
Guardian Essential poll: voters back Labor’s Future Made in Australia plan while overestimating cost of renewables.
‘Children won’t be able to survive’: inter-American court to hear from climate victims.
Judge throws out case against UK climate activist who held sign on jurors’ rights.
‘This country is what the world would like to be’: can Costa Rica’s environment minister keep its green reputation intact?
Weather tracker: Mexico swelters under season’s first heatwave.
Far right’s rise in Portugal could threaten ambitious climate action.
Major investors leading push against Woodside’s climate plans ahead of AGM.
Louisiana’s flagship university lets oil firms influence research – for a price.
The El Niño has ended. Will Australia get a La Niña next – and what weather could that bring?
Sunak has ‘set Britain back’ on net zero, says UK’s climate adviser.
A heedless dash for net zero will waste cash and, later, votes.
Scientists’ experiment is ‘beacon of hope’ for coral reefs on brink of global collapse.
Scottish Greens to vote on power-sharing deal with SNP after carbon goal ditched.
Climate delegates snub Russian address as activists fear geopolitical setbacks.
Sunak’s tax breaks could lead to more than £8bn of North Sea energy projects.
Why the four-day working week may worsen the climate crisis.
Carbon dioxide levels are now 50% higher than during the pre-industrial era.
Environmentalists join forces to fight ‘carbon bomb’ fossil fuel projects.
‘We need something real’: the Russian climate activist taking on Putin’s war.
An ocean of noise: how sonic pollution is hurting marine life – podcast.
‘Hidden world’ of marine life discovered in Antarctic ‘river’ under ice.
After winning the climate election, Labor must be the climate government the whole world needs.
Elif Shafak: there’s a scream building up in young people.
Climate-friendly diets can make a huge difference – even if you don’t go all-out vegan.
‘Apocalyptic skies’: the dust storms devastating Gulf states and Syria.
The regenerative farm working to improve soil without fertilisers.
Global heating is turning white Alps green, study finds.
Climate activists vow to fight as new gasfield gets go-ahead in North Sea.
Out with asphalt: US schoolyards transformed into green oases.
Current policies will bring ‘catastrophic’ climate breakdown, warn former UN leaders.
For 50 years, governments have failed to act on climate change. No more excuses.
The last hunt? Future in peril for ‘the unicorn of the sea’.
Ex-fire chief predicts Labor will strengthen 2030 climate target after meeting minister.
Jane Fonda rallies disaffected young US voters: ‘Do not sit this election out’.
People must understand: we in Malawi are paying for the climate crisis with our lives.
‘A break from the heat’: Americans most affected by climate crisis head midwest.
‘Even the breeze was hot’: how incarcerated people survive extreme heat in prison.
No more sticking-plaster solutions: Britain’s green agenda is on solid ground.
Retired priest speaks of ‘painful’ treatment by church over her climate protests.
‘I no longer have to save the world’: Novelist Richard Powers on fiction and the climate crisis.
California fire agency engineer arrested on suspicion of starting five wildfires.
People rescued from rooftops as flooding hits northern Italy.
‘It’s guerrilla warfare’: Brazil fire teams fight Amazon blazes – and the arsonists who start them.
Wildfires ravaging northern Portugal.
Coalition’s nuclear plan will lead to ‘massive’ electricity shortages and risk blackouts, new analysis warns.
Two missing and 1,000 evacuated as Storm Boris devastates northern Italy.
Sweden cuts tax on flying despite admitting it would increase emissions.
Storm Boris hits northern Italy, bringing severe floods.
I’ve studied geopolitics all my life: climate breakdown is a bigger threat than China and Russia.
Campaigners call for unlimited ‘climate card’ UK rail pass.
Storm Boris batters northern Italy bringing severe flooding and landslides.
Top UK food firms urged to do more to cut ‘staggering’ emissions.
Labor wants safeguard mechanism to cut emissions from big polluters by up to 6% a year.
100 years in 48 hours: the ‘epic’ VR film Gondwana is set in the world’s oldest tropical rainforest.
Church of England pension boss’s shares in Shell ‘shocking’, say campaigners.
The Trials review – tomorrow’s children hold us to account for climate crimes.
Golden eagles face double threat as US wind turbines add to climate crisis peril.
Electric cars to solar panels: tax breaks in Biden’s climate law for Americans.
‘Biggest step forward on climate ever’: Biden signs Democrats’ landmark bill.
Eastern Australia faces wet weather and flooding with 70% chance of third consecutive La Niña.
Wildfires tear through forests in Spain's Valencia region.
UK weather: Devon and Cornwall hit by heavy rain and flooding.
Sussex’s Wakehurst reveals its ‘future-proofed’ American prairie grassland.
Why is England so vulnerable to droughts?
You’re Safe Til 2024: Deep History review – gripping crisis talks.
Grenadian minister Simon Stiell to be next UN climate chief.
Weeks of heat above 100F will be the norm in much of US by 2053, study finds.
Hotter summers may fuel increase in skin cancers, doctors warn.
Look to nature-based solutions to prevent drought.
It’s back: the lost Welsh village that has reappeared in the drought.
Wildfires in Europe burn area equivalent to one-fifth of Belgium.
Boris Johnson told to tackle rising energy bills to avoid ‘extreme suffering’ this winter.
The two Australias at Cop28: a country at odds with itself on the climate crisis.
The Guardian view on Labour and the climate crisis: the £28bn question deserves an answer.
Cop28: ‘failure is not an option,’ says summit president.
‘Come with solutions’: Cop28 president calls for compromise in final meetings.
Why BBC wildman Chris Packham just can’t stop ruffling feathers.
‘Magical’ tech innovations a distraction from real solutions, climate experts warn.
Cop28: China ‘would like to see agreement to substitute renewables for fossil fuels’.
Cop28: petrostate Azerbaijan to host next UN climate summit in 2024 –  as it happened.
Azerbaijan chosen to host Cop29 after fraught negotiations.
Cop28 failing on climate adaptation finance so far, African group warns.
Failure to agree fossil fuel phase-out at Cop28 ‘will push world into climate breakdown’.
Middle-class fear of green policies fuels rise of far right, Colombia’s Petro warns.
Cop28 is a farce rigged to fail, but there are other ways we can try to save the planet.
Why is the phase-out of fossil fuels the biggest flashpoint at Cop28?
Big meat and dairy lobbyists turn out in record numbers at Cop28.
Saleemul Huq obituary.
The Guardian view on Cop28: a phase-out of fossil fuels is the only decision that makes sense.
Met Office issues weather warnings for strong winds and heavy rain across UK.
New Zealand’s environmental credentials on the line as coalition takes power.
How do we mourn an island? Where do we mark its grave?
‘Coldest village in France’ reports rare frost-free October.
West accused of double standards over oil and gas exploration in DRC.
UK criticised for failing to pay $300m in promised climate funds ahead of Cop27.
Waterlogged wheat, rotting oranges: five crops devastated by a year of extreme weather.
Climate crisis battle an ‘opportunity’ for working people, says Starmer.
Rishi Sunak may yet attend Cop27 climate summit, says No 10.
Leaders’ apathy towards climate crisis is proving deadly.
Nothing will change on climate until death toll rises in west, says Gabonese minister.
Two-thirds of US money for fossil fuel pours into Africa despite climate goals.
On Guam there is no birdsong, you cannot imagine the trauma of a silent island.
Cop27 protesters will be corralled in desert away from climate conference.
Marks & Spencer to hire out clothes to cost-conscious shoppers.
Greta Thunberg to skip ‘greenwashing’ Cop27 climate summit in Egypt.
Global anger at Sunak’s Cop27 snub that raises fears over UK’s climate crisis stance.
HS2 could face review as Tories look to plug budget, says Michael Gove.
In my house is a Tuvaluan basket, a tiny piece of an island the world cannot fail.
Rather than an endlessly reheated nuclear debate, politicians should be powered by the evidence.
‘They only had about 30 seconds left’: why cars become death traps in floods.
Could Barbados blueprint be a Marshall Plan for the climate crisis?
How likely is progress on climate at Cop27?
Welcome to Cop27! And now a word from our sponsors.
Oil and gas greenhouse emissions ‘three times higher’ than producers claim.
From the archive: The Anthropocene epoch: have we entered a new phase of planetary history?.
Climate activists target Andy Warhol’s Campbell’s soup cans at National Gallery of Australia.
Climate crisis will have huge impact on Africa’s economies, study says.
Ukraine president says peace is vital for saving climate; US called out for blocking ‘loss and damage’ funds.
Cop27: ending war in Ukraine necessary to tackle climate crisis, Zelenskiy says.
Climate finance and human rights fears: what happened on day two of Cop27?
The Guardian view on climate finance: a green transition requires funding.
'No effective climate policy without peace on Earth,' Zelenskiy tells Cop27.
Bristol airport expansion would hinder UK climate goals, court told.
Barbados PM hails 'loss and damage' addition to climate agenda at Cop27.
Mexico will try to ‘deceive the world’ at Cop27, experts warn.
Just Stop Oil activists climb M25 gantries for second day.
Cop27: Ursula von der Leyen urges global north to follow in EU's footsteps.
UN experts demand crackdown on greenwashing of net zero pledges.
Just Stop Oil protesters bring parts of M25 to halt for second day.
‘Vital’ energy security bill must be brought back, says Labour.
Many Republicans think climate crisis is a hoax, says Nancy Pelosi.
Climate carnage: whose job is it to save the planet? – documentary.
‘Explosion’ in number of fossil fuel lobbyists at Cop27 climate summit.
‘Major push’ for gas amid Ukraine war accelerating climate breakdown.
Weatherwatch: ‘spicier’ Arctic Ocean is causing alarm.
Politicians or protesters: who can save the planet? – Politics Weekly UK.
World’s biggest carmakers to build 400m more vehicles than 1.5C climate target will allow.
What happened on the third day of Cop27 in Egypt?
Hertfordshire police promise inquiry into arrest of journalists at Just Stop Oil protests.
Oil and gas firms planning ‘frightening’ fossil fuels growth, report finds.
Time for rich nations to face hard climate truths at Cop27.
US introduces new carbon trading scheme to boost investment in developing countries.
UK government must improve energy-saving advice, say its climate advisers.
China’s top climate official urges US to ‘clear barriers’ to talks.
The radical plan to move a country.
‘Significant’ moves on climate disaster funds lift Cop27 hopes.
'Are you a climate denier?': Guardian journalist questions World Bank president.
There’s one big subject our leaders at Cop27 won’t touch: livestock farming.
Bringing up Bibi: inside the 11 November Guardian Weekly.
Multimillion-pound UK road scheme facing legal action on climate grounds.
Inside America’s groundbreaking solar-powered health facility.
Albanese government has guaranteed farmers won’t be hurt if Australia signs methane pledge, NFF says.
Victorian towns told to evacuate or shelter as major flooding hits.
Pakistan floods: ‘Everything we own has been washed away’.
Give up the gas: switching to electric appliances could save Australians up to $1,900 a year, report says.
Insulate Britain glue themselves to ground in PMQs-timed protest.
Will Qatar really produce ‘the first carbon-neutral World Cup in history’?
UK fracking and oil drilling good for environment, claims climate minister.
Third of emissions cuts must come from behaviour changes, say Lords.
Truss plan to block solar farms is deeply unpopular – so why is she so keen?
I’m part of the ‘anti-growth coalition’ Liz Truss loves to hate – and I’m proud of it.
King Charles must lead by example on climate crisis.
Australian scientists observe ‘rapid’ decline in Adélie penguin numbers off Antarctic coast.
Businesses lobby for carbon tariffs as Labor says Australia is ‘back in the game’ on climate.
Beavers can help Britain fight the climate crisis – if we welcome them back.
UK firms using legal muscle to facilitate human rights and climate abuses – report.
‘You aren’t afraid to challenge the status quo’: Guardian readers on our climate coverage.
ACCC begins ‘greenwashing’ crackdown on companies’ false environmental claims.
Drivers in Australia’s outer suburbs should receive electric vehicle tax breaks, report finds.
Welsh road building projects stopped after failing climate review.
UAE ‘running towards’ renewable future, says oil boss Cop28 president.
Rising seas threaten ‘mass exodus on a biblical scale’, UN chief warns.
Greens will back safeguard mechanism revamp if Labor bans new coal and gas projects.
Cyclone Gabrielle worst storm to hit New Zealand this century, says PM.
Flooding hampers rescue efforts as North Island residents told power could be out for weeks.
New Zealand climate minister blasts parliament as Cyclone Gabrielle devastates North Island.
Submerged truck shows dramatic rise of flood waters in New Zealand during Cyclone Gabrielle.
New Zealand minister decries climate crisis ‘lost decades’ in wake of Cyclone Gabrielle.
Insulate Britain activists found guilty over London roadblock.
‘It’s inequality that kills’: Naomi Klein on the future of climate justice.
Food for thought: carbon footprint of salmon and chicken farming mostly stems from feed, study suggests.
‘Double-edged sword’: why the badly needed rains in California could fuel catastrophic fires.
Slippery slope? Alpine tourism in the face of climate crisis – photo essay.
Is Florida running out of orange juice? Record prices put the squeeze on consumers.
'There will be destruction': Cyclone Gabrielle approaches New Zealand's North Island.
Mikaela Shiffrin leads push for winter sports sustainability amid climate crisis.
Climate crisis fuels new wave of TV ‘eco thrillers’.
‘We create changemakers’: the new UK college dedicated to climate crisis.
Climate breakdown could cause British apples to die out, warn experts.
Dining across the divide US special: ‘He said it was my opinion that humans caused climate change. No, it’s science’.
John Motson was ahead of the game in tackling racism in football.
Ecosystem collapse ‘inevitable’ unless wildlife losses reversed.
Parts of US see earliest spring conditions on record: ‘Climate change playing out in real time’.
‘We have no time to lose’: Ban Ki-moon criticises climate finance delays.
Beauty breeds obsession: the fight to save orchids from a lethal black market.
The Guardian view on Keir Starmer’s growth speech: mission statement.
Recapturing excess heat could power most of Europe, say experts.
Inability to cool homes in summer heat making almost 90% of Centrelink recipients ill, survey finds.
The American climate migration has already begun.
‘Help us fight’: California farmers ask for more aid after deadly storms.
Could growing celery in rewetted peatland help fight climate change?
The trouble with the Greens.
Australia to make area the size of Germany a marine park in Southern Ocean.
Labor won’t block new fossil fuel developments. Here are some options for a climate deal.
US energy firms use Ukraine war to lock in long-term gas contracts, report says.
Republicans in the US ‘battery belt’ embrace Biden’s climate spending.
Today’s climate activist ‘criminals’ are tomorrow’s heroes: silencing them in court is immoral.
Ex-easyJet pilot fined for blocking road outside Harrods in climate protest.
UN body reaches long-term aviation climate goal of net zero by 2050.
Environmental protesters block central London for seventh day.
England recorded 2,800 excess deaths in over-65s during 2022 heatwaves.
UK offers new North Sea oil and gas licences despite climate concerns.
UK risks ending Cop26 presidency in disarray over Truss climate policy.
Energy crisis? It isn’t that we have too little oil and gas. It’s that we have too much.
Dairy co-op Arla to pay farmers more for milk if climate targets met.
The truth about getting to net zero, according to the numbers.
African countries urge rich nations to honour $100bn climate finance pledge.
Why is Africa bearing the brunt of the climate crisis?.
Heating and eating: can cost of living and climate protesters join forces?
‘I have a voice’: African activists struggle to attend UN climate talks in Egypt.
Light fantastic: BP’s solar venture launches biggest UK project yet.
People of colour have been shut out of the climate debate. Social justice is the key to a greener world.
Weatherwatch: climate crisis causing tropical viruses to spread.
‘Reckless’ coal firms plan climate-busting expansion, study finds.
The old men and the CPAC: conservatives regaled with tired tales of climate misinformation.
Pakistani PM says he should not have to beg for help after catastrophic floods.
Climate crisis made summer drought 20 times more likely, scientists find.
The Guardian view on Cop27: climate justice must take centre stage.
Lack of NI government puts net zero targets at risk, UK climate adviser warns.
As the climate warms, New Zealand winemakers grapple with a changing landscape.
Big news in the close-knit and secretive climate change community!.
What can be done to cut carbon emissions from aircraft contrails?
Sandstorms cover China, South Korea and Thailand in a yellow blanket of dust.
Is driving on the left stopping New Zealand reaching its climate goals?
‘I’m all for climate change’: Axel Springer CEO faces heat over leaked messages.
UK bird numbers continue to crash as government poised to break own targets.
UK accused of ‘backward step’ for axing top climate diplomat role.
Campaigners call for EU to tax fishing industry to fund decarbonisation.
‘Even in the realms of extreme, it’s extreme’: how UK music festivals are planning for freak weather.
Road-building spree will derail UK’s net zero targets, warn campaigners.
From the archive – The sound of icebergs melting: my journey into the Antarctic.
Investing in public transport could give economy £50bn annual boost, says TUC.
Climate models warn of possible ‘super El Niño’ before end of year.
Does climate breakdown mean we’re doomed? No: if we’re brave, big change can happen fast.
Climate emergency is the biggest health crisis of our time – bigger than Covid.
Miami and New Orleans face greater sea-level threat than already feared.
David Attenborough’s online Wild Isles isn’t too hard-hitting for TV – it doesn’t go far enough.
A jail for wayward polar bears? You must be in Churchill, Canada….
Why we need to respect Earth’s last great wilderness – the ocean.
Fires, floods and disappearing beaches: can Mediterranean holidays survive?
Iraq’s oil boom blamed for worsening water crisis in drought-hit south.
Don’t Look Up director Adam McKay to triple donations to Just Stop Oil.
Hold your horses! Do we really need another threat to humanity?
Snow fly in US and Canada can detach its legs to survive, research shows.
The existential threat from AI – and from humans misusing it.
Arizona limits future home-building in Phoenix area due to lack of groundwater.
‘The window is closing’: Cop28 must deliver change of course on climate.
El Niño may push heating past 1.5C but urgent action could avert catastrophe.
Weather tracker: Shanghai reports record high May temperature of 36.7C.
‘Climate negotiations are inherently abusive’: campaigner Brianna Craft on the struggle smaller countries face.
US deal could plug Turkmenistan’s colossal methane emissions.
China swelters through record temperatures, putting pressure on power grids.
Scenes from the Climate Era review – the world’s biggest story, told in 50 plays over 80 minutes.
England cricket team bus briefly held up by Just Stop Oil protest in London.
Energy company’s NSW cash for gas appliances promotion labelled ‘backward step’ for climate.
Foggy future for Arctic shipping as sea ice melts.
Albanese government urged to push international banks to stop funding fossil fuel development.
Householders to receive money off bills for going green under Labour plans.
Dramatic week in Montana climate trial as youngsters tell of toll on lives.
Paris talks to focus on funding poor countries to tackle climate crisis.
Skiers hope cold fronts will bring snow after ‘tough start’ to Australian season.
Campaigners win right to challenge England’s food strategy over climate crisis.
One of Britain’s largest sunken forests reveals its secrets.
Hay fever may get worse due to climate change, says Met Office.
UK lagging behind in global race to decarbonise, says TUC leader.
Howard and Abbott seek the meaning of life. What if our true purpose is … saving the planet.
Just Stop Oil protesters interrupt opera at Glyndebourne festival.
Exotic bee-eater returns to UK for second summer in a row.
Fossil fuel lobbyists will have to identify themselves when registering for Cop28.
US east coast cities warned to draft air quality plans similar to those in the west.
Vast fossil fuel and farming subsidies causing ‘environmental havoc’.
The west has broken its promises to developing countries – and we’re all paying the price.
Fears of hottest year on record as global temperatures spike.
The hard right and climate catastrophe are intimately linked. This is how.
From the oceans to ‘net zero’ targets, we’re in denial about the climate crisis.
NZ climate activist faces up to 10 years in prison over fake letter saying fossil fuel event cancelled.
One in three GB News presenters cast doubt on climate science, study reveals.
British parents need to adapt to climate chaos – but not by abandoning the great outdoors.
‘Farming good, factory bad’, we think. When it comes to the global food crisis, it isn’t so simple.
Seaweed could avert food crisis caused by extreme weather.
Ancient books in northern Italy frozen to salvage them from flood damage.
Slowing ocean current caused by melting Antarctic ice could have drastic climate impact, study says.
MEPs accused of ‘culture war against nature’ by opposing restoration law.
Shipping in the Arctic faces foggy future as sea ice melts.
Scoops that made a difference: revisiting the big stories Guardian Australia broke.
Climate activism is doomed to fail.
MP urges colleagues to back voice.
‘Worthless’: Chevron’s carbon offsets are mostly junk and some may harm, research says.
UK students pledge ‘career boycott’ of insurers over fossil fuels.
‘Don’t F&*! The Planet’: Atlassian issues net zero guide for companies cutting climate impact.
No 10 rejects claim Sunak ‘dithering’ over whether to order inquiry into claims Braverman broke ministerial code.
Heavy rains in Canada offer relief from wildfires but could lead to flooding.
Low birth rate linked to fear about the future.
CEO of biggest carbon credit certifier to resign after claims offsets worthless.
Imports of ivory from hippos, orcas and walruses to be banned in UK.
What will we eat in a post-1.5C world?.
Climate diplomacy is hopeless, says author of How to Blow Up a Pipeline.
Advice on voice a ‘cynical political tactic’ to confuse voters, Coalition claims.
Are you a good parent? OK, so what are you doing to protect your child from climate collapse?
Stuck Monkey by James Hamilton-Paterson review – our deadly addictions.
Are we facing a summer of sporting protests?
One jailed and three others fined over Insulate Britain roadblock protest.
Earth Day climate action organisers promise family-friendly protests.
Green energy is a bigger opportunity for Australia than the resources boom. Let’s not waste it.
The US needs 1m more electricians to hit climate goals. Can it recruit more women?
‘Frightening’: record-busting heat and drought hit Europe in 2022.
Britons who keep gardens green should get council tax cut, study suggests.
Once-rare alpine swift in the UK could soon be staying to breed.
Judge says Ontario’s weak climate plans increase risk of death for the young.
Labor’s electric vehicle policy drives Australia forward – but not far.
‘They are despairing’: climate crisis weighs heavy on mental health of young Australians.
Spanish startup on ‘mission to save planet’s beer’ from climate crisis.
Volcanic microbe eats CO2 ‘astonishingly quickly’, say scientists.
Why elephants, otters and whales are nature’s secret weapons against climate breakdown.
Severe heatwave engulfs Asia causing deaths and forcing schools to close.
‘Don’t fool yourself’: billions more needed to protect tropical forests, warns new report.
Fossil fuel firms owe climate reparations of $209bn a year, says study.
New York City is sinking due to weight of its skyscrapers, new research finds.
If swing voters were terrified of the climate crisis, ministers would take it seriously.
Watch Guardian Australia's 10th birthday celebrations.
‘No one saw this level of devastation coming’: climate crisis worsens in Somalia.
More than half of the world’s lakes have shrunk in past 30 years, study finds.
Italy’s disasters suggest the climate crisis is at the gates of Europe.
Developing country voices will be excluded at UN plastic talks, say NGOs.
Why gas is not the answer to our net zero ambitions.
‘Six times the size of Yosemite’: the new tribal sanctuary off the super-rich California coast.
How opponents of LTNs are adopting the climate-sceptic playbook.
Global heating has likely made El Niños and La Niñas more ‘frequent and extreme’, new study shows.
Gina Rinehart tells summit to devote ‘15 minutes each day to spread the mining message’.
South Australia rushes through anti-protest laws as activists rally outside oil and gas conference.
Having trouble facing the reality of the climate crisis? Use this tried and tested method.
New Zealand boosts budget funding for climate resilience in wake of Cyclone Gabrielle.
The gas industry should be transparent about its future. So should MPs and the media.
‘The city was underwater’: quarter of a million Somalis flee flooded homes.
Climate breakdown made southern Asia heatwave at least 2C hotter, study finds.
‘Making the climate crisis worse’: Greens blast Labor after Queensland coal seam gas expansion approved.
Australia faces unprecedented grassfires next summer ‘supercharged’ by global heating.
Biden urged not to approve oil terminals that could create ‘carbon bombs’.
Insulate Britain activist Xavier Gonzalez-Trimmer found dead.
Boldly not going: zero-travel ‘touring’ play paves the way for eco theatre.
Stronger El Niño events may speed up irreversible melting of Antarctic ice, research finds.
Venice canals start to run dry as low tide and lack of rain hit.
The true cost of wood-burning stoves.
Australia’s big emitters could cut CO2 by 90% by 2050 without offsets, report finds.
The never-ending fallout of the northern rivers floods: ‘People are just worn down’.
It’s high time to rethink how the World Bank operates.
From cradle to compost: the disruptors who want to make death greener.
‘Nature will punish you’: Asif Kapadia and Akram Khan on their climate crisis dance film.
‘Not much time left’: Salt Lake City’s mayor on the Great Lake drying up.
Climate crisis brings whiff of danger to French perfume capital.
Skiiers urge sport’s governing body to act over climate crisis and lack of snow.
‘Birdsville mindset’: what an outback town where the roads melt can teach us about living with heat.
Australia can’t blow another decade of climate action – it’s now up to Labor and the Greens.
Italy faces another year of severe drought after little winter rain or snow.
Australia’s big four banks face shareholder ire over funding fossil fuels.
New Zealand farmers may pay for greenhouse gas emissions under world-first plans.
Second world war ‘Ghost Boat’ emerges in California lake, puzzling officials.
Albanese government’s climate plans face hurdle as experts criticise carbon market reforms.
Give legal rights to animals, trees and rivers, say experts.
The Guardian’s climate pledge 2022.
Glacier grief: how funerals and rituals can help us mourn the loss of nature.
UK’s lost leadership role hurts Somalia’s fight against famine, says drought envoy.
Ministers hope to ban solar projects from most English farms.
Work therapy: can a climate campaigner help a coworking space go green?
Bruno Latour, French philosopher and anthropologist, dies aged 75.
‘The US dammed us up’: how drought is threatening Navajo ties to ancestral lands.
Could a fourth La Niña follow Sydney’s record-breaking rainfall?
Liz Truss facing rural rebellion over anti-nature ‘growth’ push.
The experiment that may have saved a Washington town from falling into the ocean.
Phoenix could see deadliest year for heat deaths after sweltering summer.
‘Stop setting things on fire’: nine great ideas to save the planet.
Greta Thunberg on the climate delusion: ‘We’ve been greenwashed out of our senses. It’s time to stand our ground’.
European Commission aims to end secret system protecting fossil fuel holdings.
Putting down roots: meet our new gardening columnists.
From the archive: Snow machines and fleece blankets: inside the ski industry’s battle with climate change.
Three easy steps to stop creatures becoming extinct.
Juries deserve the truth on climate protests.
John Harries obituary.
Safeguard mechanism: what is it, will it cut emissions and what role do carbon offsets play?
World Bank chief resigns after climate stance misstep.
Why World Bank head’s resignation is good news for climate crisis fight.
Bodies of missing men found.
World risks descending into a climate ‘doom loop’, warn thinktanks.
Cyclone Gabrielle: helicopter pilot balances on roof in 'daring' New Zealand rescue.
Where are all the leaders? Climate policy as seen from outer space.
‘Extreme situation’: Antarctic sea ice hits record low.
Antarctic science expedition put on ice due to problems with Australia’s research vessel Nuyina.
A third of companies linked to deforestation have no policy to end it.
Labor rounds on Greens ‘sabotage’ of emissions reduction plan.
Atomic Hope review – a powerful case for pressing the nuclear power button.
Two missing after Queensland mine collapse.
Finite: The Climate of Change review – powerful case against climate crisis fatigue.
World’s largest skating rink on thin ice as Canada’s warm winter prevents opening.
Science minister warns CSIRO against ‘renting out’ its brand to giant gas companies.
Risks, rising costs and ‘relentless demands’: why so many musicians are cancelling their tours.
Billionaire Mo Ibrahim attacks ‘hypocrisy’ over Africa’s gas.
‘Badasses of the mountains’: goats clash with sheep as key US glaciers melt.
Dangers posed by fracking and oil drilling.
Public ownership of power assets key to smooth shift to renewables, Queensland energy minister says.
Cecilia Vicuña: Brain Forest Quipu; Richard Mosse: Broken Spectre review – the world worn down.
One dead and two missing after Greek island of Crete hit by flash flooding.
CSIRO abruptly scraps globally recognised climate forecast program.
Cross country skiers given cold shoulder as Falls Creek climate change planning sparks trail row.
‘It brings it home’: Archbishop of Canterbury highlights climate crisis in Australia with visit to Lismore.
Drought threatens England’s fruit and vegetable crop next year, says report.
‘It was terrifying’: Stop Oil activists on the new battle against fossil fuel.
Australians who’ve sworn off flying: ‘If you get on a plane, you’ve undone a year’s worth of good’.
Time to break bread with climate sceptics.
UK joins calls for World Bank reform to focus funding on climate crisis.
The Guardian view on Tory environment chaos: turning back the clock.
Australian wheat yields plummet after decades of global heating, study finds.
The uninsurables: how storms and rising seas are making coastlines unliveable.
Fact check: are the Tories right that British oil and gas is greener?
Biden’s speech and protesting medics: what happened on fifth day of Cop27.
Joe Biden warns world faces ‘pivotal moment’ in fight against climate crisis - as it happened.
Warmest Armistice Day ever for England, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Cop27: Biden says leaders ‘can no longer plead ignorance’ over climate crisis.
Why climate crisis means some English roses will bloom no longer.
What is the fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty?
In the battle for Melbourne’s Bayside, can fired-up independents snatch seats?
Chris Bowen on reforming Australia’s climate policy.
‘Put kids first’: India’s Warrior Moms fight for clean air at Cop27.
Cop27 must pave the way for ‘a Paris moment’ for nature, says UN.
Carbon emissions from fossil fuels will hit record high in 2022.
Is China doing enough to combat the climate crisis?
Climate maps let UK voters see impact of crisis in their area.
Climate activists attacking art ‘severely underestimate’ fragility of works, gallery directors warn.
Rich countries like Australia shouldn’t balk at climate spending – it will soon pay for itself.
Anger at fossil fuel lobbyist numbers: what happened on fourth day of Cop27.
Imprisoned activist’s lawyer denied access at Egyptian jail during climate summit.
‘More than 50 poor countries in danger of bankruptcy’ says UN official.
Show of solidarity and a T rex: day four at Cop27.
Pelosi accuses Republicans of treating climate crisis like ‘it’s all a hoax’ at Cop27.
Tuvalu first to call for fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty at Cop27.
Tell us: has the climate crisis forced you to move?
Australian prime minister blasts opposition leader over demand to ‘rule out’ compensating other countries for climate crisis.
Cost of cancelling French submarines revealed.
African nations can’t ‘adapt’ to the climate crisis. Here’s what rich countries must do.
Cop26 one year on: how much progress has been made?
After the flood: Bedouin way of life blooms again in South Sinai.
How to move a country: Fiji’s radical plan to escape rising sea levels.
Cop27: Who are the real climate leaders?.
Developing countries ‘will need $2tn a year in climate funding by 2030’.
Barbados PM launches blistering attack on rich nations at Cop27 climate talks.
Cop27: Sunak says it is ‘morally right’ for UK to honour climate pledges.
Rishi launches lacklustre Sharm offensive as battle of the PMs hits Egypt.
The Guardian view on Rishi Sunak’s Cop27 trip: placing the planet on a road to hell.
Cop27 day one: UN chief warns world is ‘on highway to climate hell’.
The source material for a classic thriller.
Rishi Sunak wants to await Gavin Williamson inquiry result before deciding whether to sack him.
World faces ‘terminal’ loss of Arctic sea ice during summers, report warns.
Met vows to make more pre-emptive arrests after M25 hit by climate action.
'We have the collective capacity to transform,' says Mia Mottley at Cop27.
The Contingency Plan review – a double dose of climate crisis drama.
Cop27 climate summit: window for avoiding catastrophe is closing fast.
Will disruptive action help save the planet?
The Observer view on Rishi Sunak’s shameful decision not to attend Cop27.
Thin fish, small catches: can Japan’s sushi culture survive climate crisis?
No 10 alarm as Boris Johnson plans to attend Cop27 climate summit.
New York still vulnerable 10 years after Hurricane Sandy, protesters warn.
Roadblocks, soup hurling, superglue … Just Stop Oil protests divide activists on direct action.
How a desert bloomed in the driest place on Earth.
Just Stop Oil activists dragged out of road by motorists in London.
Storm Nalgae: floods and landslides in Philippines kill at least 45.
Goal of limiting global heating to 1.5C ‘more fragile’ than ever, says Cop27 chair.
Britain’s grasslands and dormice under threat from mild autumn.
Climate crisis study finds heatwaves have cost global economy $16tn.
The Guardian view on the climate crisis: no end in sight.
Windfall tax must change in face of ‘excessive’ oil profits, Alok Sharma says.
'Massive failure of leadership': Rishi Sunak criticised for skipping Cop27.
Up to King Charles whether he wishes to attend Cop27, says Thérèse Coffey.
BoM boss apologises for rebranding debacle and says there are ‘significant learnings’ for bureau.
People call for help as extreme floods engulf houses and roads in Italy.
World likely to breach 1.5C climate threshold by 2027, scientists warn.
Air pollution transparency rules among EU laws to be scrapped by UK.
Scavengers, miners, and climate activists: can Poland ditch coal?.
Cop28 host UAE’s approach is ‘dangerous’, says UN’s ex-climate chief.
EPA finally wakes up with stiff new climate rules: ‘They’ve hit full throttle’.
Not seeing the trees for the wood: willow shortage could spell end for Kashmir’s cricket bat industry.
To offset or inset emissions? Australian farmers are ‘flying blind in a low-carbon world’.
South Australia tells gas industry the state is ‘at your disposal’.
Punishing heatwave grips Pacific north-west as wildfires rage in western Canada.
Rainbow sea slug found in Falmouth rock pool indicates warming sea.
Greenwashing era is over, say ad agencies, as regulators get tough.
Oceans have been absorbing the world’s extra heat. But there’s a huge payback.
God save the king? What about the planet?
Climate crisis deniers target scientists for vicious abuse on Musk’s Twitter.
Svalbard: the Arctic islands where we can see the future of global heating.
We need AI to help us face the challenges of the future.
Leader of Kenyan waste pickers: ‘We are the backbone of recycling’.
Weatherwatch: concerns over climate impact on UK nuclear power sites.
How big a deal is US and Australian cooperation on climate and energy?
Global heating will push billions outside ‘human climate niche’.
Big polluters’ share prices fall after climate lawsuits, study finds.
Why rising sea levels pose existential threat to the Bahamas – extract.
Why I stopped arguing about the climate emergency and tried the silent treatment instead.
University investment funds urge ‘bold action’ to stop new fossil fuel projects.
New Zealand announces its biggest emissions reduction project in history.
Rome: climate activists turn Trevi fountain water black.
Can we still handle the truth? Journalism, ‘alternative facts’ and the rise of AI.
How the Australian gas industry’s audacious net zero claims stack up – explainer.
‘Roads have disappeared’: Italy begins cleanup after catastrophic floods.
Rome climate protesters turn Trevi fountain water black.
Philosopher Peter Singer: ‘There’s no reason to say humans have more worth or moral status than animals’.
How solar farms took over the California desert: ‘An oasis has become a dead sea’.
Breathe review – Sadiq Khan’s climate emergency manifesto is a breath of fresh air.
‘All of a sudden there’s a house’: could prefab be the future of Australian homes?
Joe Biden apologises to Anthony Albanese after cancelling Sydney Quad meeting at last minute.
Nicola Jennings on the world’s 1.5C global heating limit — cartoon.
$209bn a year is what fossil fuel firms owe in climate reparations. We want that paid.
‘Like a dam breaking’: experts hail decision to let US climate lawsuits advance.
North Sea drilling: Greenpeace prepares to challenge ‘disastrous’ UK decision.
Climate protesters gather in Parliament Square as fossil fuel deadline passes.
Reliance on Australia’s military during natural disasters comes at a cost, senator says.
1903 Storm Ulysses one of windiest ever in England and Wales, shows analysis.
Former president of Kiribati backs legal case against Australia over inaction on climate crisis.
Australia’s defence force is expected to get its biggest overhaul in decades. Here’s what we know so far.
Bannau Brycheiniog: new name for the park but poor state of nature harder to fix.
‘Green colonialism’: Indigenous world leaders warn over west’s climate strategy.
How to Blow Up a Pipeline review – a gripping, of-the-moment eco-thriller.
Chris Packham calls for ‘every last person who cares’ to join XR.
The forecast looks grim as climate crisis knocks cricket for six.
Lake or mistake? The row over water firms, drought and Abingdon’s new super-reservoir.
Meet the Gen Z brand whisperers: ‘I come in and I’m like: don’t make some weird old-ass campaign!’.
‘Appalling’ Earth Day greenwashing must not detract from message, says protest founder.
Climate change’s unexpected impact on small talk.
How an Arctic snow school aims to respond to climate crisis with Inuit help.
When climate despair spills over into righteous violence, can that ever be right?
Big tent for the Big One: Extinction Rebellion shows softer side in London protest.
Montana officials try to downplay landmark climate trial.
Debt relief urgent for poor countries hit by climate shocks, says IMF chief.
The no-wash movement: would you wear underpants for a week without cleaning them?
Real climate action or just Labor in vain?
Blockade Australia climate protests cause traffic chaos in Brisbane and Melbourne.
MPs vote to approve Boris Johnson Partygate report.
‘Quite weird’: sea temperature rise in north-east of England worries residents.
We must not ignore coalmines in the fight to reduce methane emissions.
Australians far less aware of biodiversity loss than climate crisis, research finds.
A wealth tax could help poorer countries tackle climate crisis, economists say.
‘Unheard of’ marine heatwave off UK and Irish coasts poses serious threat.
How bad is wildfire smoke for your health? Here’s my view as a toxicologist.
European truck makers ‘trail in global race to net zero’.
Weather tracker: sea surface temperatures at record levels in north Atlantic.
Canada’s fires are getting fiercer – and rebuilding is becoming a challenge.
Climate protesters block coal shipments in three states as Minns warns against ‘dangerous’ situations.
Australia needs to reduce emissions to net zero by 2038 to do ‘fair share’ to contain global heating, analysis shows.
‘No time to waste’: getting Australian homes off gas crucial for meeting net zero targets, report says.
Power companies spend millions to fight Maine’s proposed non-profit utility.
‘Countries are drowning’: climate expert calls for urgent rethink on scale of aid for developing world.
'Full of life': scientists discover pristine deep-sea Galapagos coral reefs.
Campaigners urge action over carbon footprint of disposable nappies.
World’s at-risk kelp forests provide billions of dollars in benefits, study shows.
Scientists discover pristine deep-sea Galápagos reef ‘teeming with life’.
‘Without the ice cap, we cannot live’: the Andes community devastated by climate crisis.
Horticulturists turn to ‘desert gardens’ at UK flower shows amid climate crisis.
Colorado River snaking through Grand Canyon most endangered US waterway – report.
EU faces legal action after including gas and nuclear in ‘green’ investments guide.
The climate cost of insulating our homes.
Protesters urge caution over St Ives climate trial amid chemical plans for bay.
The next El Niño: when is it coming and how strong might this one be for Australia?
Renewable energy growth must double to meet Australia’s emission goals, Clean Energy Council says.
Like Captain Planet with marsupials: First Dog on the Moon steps on stage.
What prompted my U-turn on LTNs? I realised I was on the same side as Laurence Fox.
Fears for England’s frog and toad population after drought.
Hey! Don’t krill yourself humanity!.
Why did we protest at the Grand National? To finally make Britain talk about our treatment of animals.
Dozens of climate activists arrested after shovelling coal from train bound for Newcastle.
Labor’s ‘quite ambitious’ electric vehicle strategy expected to be released this week.
Utah’s Great Salt Lake risked disappearing. Unprecedented weather is bringing it back.
Labour’s oil and gas ban shows it’s ready to fight the next election on climate issues.
Australia’s emissions fell 0.4% in 2022 despite increases in transport and agriculture pollution.
For some US residents, it is now impossible to get home insurance - and all because of the climate crisis.
Don’t blame climate anxiety for declining birth rate.
Climate change to blame for up to 17 deaths on Mount Everest, experts say.
Delta Air Lines faces lawsuit over $1bn carbon neutrality claim.
Rock ‘flour’ from Greenland can capture significant CO2, study shows.
Cop28 president’s team accused of Wikipedia ‘greenwashing’.
Six months to Cop28: will the most vital summit yet make meaningful progress?
Experts call for ‘loss and damage’ fund for nature in developing world.
Why the climate crisis is making our insects run for the hills.
Ukraine built more onshore wind turbines in past year than England.
DeSantis accused of ‘catastrophic’ climate approach after campaign launch.
More than 1,500 arrested at Extinction Rebellion protest in The Hague.
Insurance giant halts sale of new home policies in California due to wildfires.
Up to 70% of California beaches could disappear by end of the century.
No cellphone? No problem! The vintage radio enthusiasts prepping for disaster.
On the climate crisis, we can’t afford to look the other way.
How to improve US cities and tackle the climate crisis? Get rid of parking spaces.
Liz Truss appoints green Tory Chris Skidmore to lead net zero review.
Could a new vaccine tackle rising rates of Lyme disease?
‘Bullshit’: David Pocock withdraws comment after criticising climate scepticism.
The Southern Ocean absorbs more heat than any other ocean on Earth and the impacts will be felt for generations.
NSW becomes first state to treat carbon dioxide as pollutant to ensure industries cut emissions.
Tory MP begins ‘net zero tour’ of UK to highlight benefits of action.
Labor’s climate change bill is expected to pass but three things are missing.
Environmentalists’ concern over Liz Truss adviser’s climate policy views.
‘The death is too much’: New York’s Little Pakistan gathers aid for flood victims.
Watch out, Liz Truss: this energy crisis may spark a climate revolution we can all get behind.
Liz Truss urged to find green solutions to UK energy crisis.
China reports ‘most severe’ heatwave and third driest summer on record.
The wealth divide linked to 370 heat deaths in New York each year.
PM grills Peter Dutton on location of power plants amid Coalition’s nuclear push.
MPs call on Liz Truss to hold to net zero target after campaign pledges.
The human cost of Pakistan’s devastating floods.
Jacob Rees-Mogg, who decried ‘climate alarmism’, to take on UK energy brief.
Gas drive will not solve energy crisis, climate advisers tell Liz Truss.
California heatwave enters intense phase bringing blackouts and wildfires.
Record of climate denialism indicates how Rees-Mogg will handle energy brief.
Extreme swimmer Lewis Pugh: ‘The polar regions are the ground zero of the climate crisis’.
Summer holidays see people queuing to charge electric cars for first time in Australia.
Davos’s elite will need to do some soul-searching in a world falling apart.
Time tunnel: why an Australian expedition is drilling through 2.6km of Antarctic ice.
Washed away: can Britain’s crumbling castles be saved from the sea?
Coastal residents fear ‘hideous’ seawalls will block waterfront views.
Pollutionwatch: citizen science helps raise alarm on UK air pollution.
Time to branch out? Trees put lawns in the shade when it comes to tackling climate crisis.
George Pell saw climate science as a dangerous religious dogma – in the end his hardline stance held the church back.
Revealed: Exxon made ‘breathtakingly’ accurate climate predictions in 1970s and 80s.
Warm 2022 makes the past eight years hottest ever recorded.
Fossil fuel producers must be forced to ‘take back’ carbon, say scientists.
UK could face ‘banking crisis worse than 2008’ if City fails to prepare for fossil fuel collapse.
‘If you win the popular imagination, you change the game’: why we need new stories on climate.
How did we save the ozone layer?
Australia’s credibility on human rights blighted by laws targeting climate protesters and jailing children, report says.
Q&A: will the California storms ease the state’s drought?
UAE to launch Cop28 presidency with oil boss tipped for leading role.
Australia must not rely on carbon offsets if it is serious about climate crisis, Ian Chubb says.
German police evict climate activists trying to stop coalmine expansion.
Oceans were the hottest ever recorded in 2022, analysis shows.
As long as Australia fails to transition away from fossil fuels, its climate policy is meaningless.
Rishi Sunak’s RAF jet flight to Leeds ‘mocks climate pledges’, MPs say.
Activists sue French food firm Danone over use of plastics.
Extreme weather caused 18 disasters in US last year, costing $165bn.
Twelve European countries broke temperature records in 2022.
Governments urged to confront effects of climate crisis on migrants.
Banks and countries pledge over $9bn to rebuild Pakistan after catastrophic floods.
Concerns over use of ‘cheap and easy’ offsets.
Afternoon Update: Labor releases plan to cut industrial emissions; Melbourne Victory fined; and Prince Harry’s book reviewed.
Labour MPs to lobby Keir Starmer to put green policies at heart of manifesto.
Relentless rain, record heat: study finds climate crisis worsened extreme weather.
England’s new ban on single-use plastics sounds good – but it is a surrender to big business.
English farmers turning to cultivating nuts as climate heats.
Net zero possible in 2040s, says outgoing UK climate business expert.
Chubb review recommends new integrity body for Australian carbon credits scheme.
Vital careers advice to six-year-old me.
Empty nests: why UK’s winter bird numbers are in sharp decline.
Thor the disoriented walrus enthralled Brits, but cut no ice with climate sceptics.
The five ways we’re killing nature and why it has to stop.
Violet Coco is in prison meanwhile the fossil fuel people are really getting value for money.
New Cumbrian coalmine would prove UK hypocrisy, say experts around world.
Replacing old ITV Studios building ‘just greedy’, inquiry hears.
The biodiversity crisis in numbers - a visual guide.
Elderly villagers become film stars to put Bolivia’s climate plight in focus.
Just Stop Oil’s message to Suella Braverman: threaten us all you like – we’re not listening.
Most UK universities failing to hit carbon reduction targets.
Violet Coco: NSW minister voted for laws used to jail his niece for 15 months over climate protest.
Sale of hybrid cars double that of EVs in Australia with experts blaming lack of electric incentives.
Documents reveal ‘scramble’ to rubber-stamp NSW bill targeting climate protests.
Stop burning trees to make energy, say 650 scientists before Cop15 biodiversity summit.
‘A soul wound’: a First Nation built its culture around salmon. Now they have to fly it in frozen.
NSW premier describes jailing of climate activist Deanna ‘Violet’ Coco as ‘pleasing to see’.
Many Australian businesses will scale back climate action when economy slows, survey finds.
The Guardian view on biodiversity collapse: the crisis humanity can no longer ignore.
Wherever you stand on Violet Coco, her jailing raises the stakes for climate protest.
Australia urged to take leadership role at Cop15 biodiversity summit.
The Observer view on a humanitarian calamity in the making.
Things we lost in the wildfires: images of the devastating personal cost of a warming world.
Extreme hunger soaring in world’s climate hotspots, says Oxfam.
Pakistan floods ‘made up to 50% worse by global heating’.
Yvon Chouinard – the ‘existential dirtbag’ who founded and gifted Patagonia.
Commonwealth can play a key role in tackling climate crisis.
Could Wael Sawan usher in a renewable revolution at Shell?
Campaigners call for climate crisis global day of action during Cop27.
Republicans plan legal assault on climate disclosure rules for public companies.
BoM forecasts wetter-than-average summer for eastern states.
Americans learn skills to survive the climate crisis – in a wilderness course.
Patagonia’s billionaire owner gives away company to fight climate crisis.
What a third La Niña means for summer.
Australia is funding just one-tenth of its fair share of global climate action, study finds.
Green hydrogen could counter energy crisis, says British firm.
Private equity still investing billions in dirty energy despite pledge to clean up.
Hundreds of yoga teachers call out lululemon over coal-powered factories.
Climate change’s top five tipping points are out! Tag yourself! I’m Greenland’s melting ice cap.
The UK needs better insulated homes to free us from Putin and the fossil fuel giants.
World heading into ‘uncharted territory of destruction’, says climate report.
First climate lawsuit against Russian government launched over emissions.
You can’t stock-pick your way out of environmental collapse, superannuation boss warns.
Fracking in Lake Eyre the ‘height of folly’, report suggests.
‘I’m tired of the lies’: the young activists leading the way on climate action.
King Charles has ‘other priorities’ than climate now, says environment minister.
Climate activist defaces memorial to Captain Sir Tom Moore.
Rise up, twitchers! The thinktanks are coming.
The climate crisis? We’ve been investigating it for more than 100 years.
Invisible Demons review – apocalypse now for pollution nightmare in Delhi.
Just Stop Oil activists blockade four London bridges.
To understand the scale of the climate emergency, look at hurricanes.
Cop15 is an opportunity to save nature. We can’t afford another decade of failure.
Extreme rainfall from Hurricane Ian worsened by climate breakdown – study.
‘Business was a way for me to cope with climate anxiety’: how opening a zero-waste store helped a college student.
‘Superhero’ moss can save communities from flooding, say scientists.
Fate of Amazon rests on Brazil election, say experts.
Hurricane Ian is no anomaly. The climate crisis is making storms more powerful.
Watch for a political earthquake in middle England, as Liz Truss breaks up the Tory bedrock.
Arctic Ocean acidifying up to four times as fast as other oceans, study finds.
Could a digital twin of Tuvalu preserve the island nation before it’s lost to the collapsing climate?
Urban greening can reduce impact of global heating in cities, finds study.
Bitcoin climate impact greater than gold mining, study shows.
Record heat over Great Barrier Reef raises fears of second summer of coral bleaching.
‘Second spring’ as UK experiences record above-average temperatures.
‘Point of no return’: Chris Packham leads calls for Rishi Sunak to attend Cop15.
Embrace what may be the most important green technology ever. It could save us all.
‘They teach us’: how whales can help dispel the myth of green capitalism.
How Albanese walked a tightrope of Labor division amid fears 43% emissions target would cost it the election.
Over 20,000 died in western Europe’s summer heatwaves, figures show.
Could hemp be a key tool in fight against climate change?
Fair Cop27? Where did Peter Dutton’s figure of $2tn for climate damage fund come from?
Cop27’s climate anticlimax: inside the 25 November Guardian Weekly.
BP declines to reveal how much ‘loophole’ saved it in windfall tax.
Just Stop Oil protesters guilty of criminal damage to Van Gogh frame.
Cop27 has shown why a new economic order is vital.
Climate activists are on the right side of history.
Australia faces worsening extreme weather events latest BoM and CSIRO climate report finds.
US receives stinging criticism at Cop27 despite China’s growing emissions.
Cop27: another blow to 1.5C?
Flaws in Australia’s carbon credits schemes undermine transparency, new report finds.
Cop27 failed on keeping global heating to just 1.5C, Ed Miliband says.
Trevor McDougall wins $250,000 science prize for researching ‘thermal flywheel’ of climate system.
Climate experts hit back at Australian politician’s bizarre theory about gravity’s role in global heating.
Former ADF chief calls for release of secret report into security threat posed by climate crisis.
Help young people lead action to tackle climate crisis.
Revealed: UAE plans huge oil and gas expansion as it hosts UN climate summit.
The perfect storm: the US city where rising sea levels and racism collide.
Making the case for carbon capture and storage.
Pacific trade deal ‘will make mockery of UK’s climate ambitions’.
Guardian Essential poll: majority of Australians favour capping power prices, lifting wages and cheaper childcare.
Industrial heavyweights call for urgent action on cutting Australia’s emissions.
The big idea: will fusion power save us from the climate crisis?
‘Losing your home is a massive thing’: how the climate crisis came to Norfolk.
Beastly: A New History of Animals and Us by Keggie Carew review – the terrible price of people power.
The Guardian view on carbon offsetting: an overhaul is overdue.
Climate activists pour black liquid into Rome fountain.
British cows could be given ‘methane blockers’ to cut climate emissions.
New oilfield in the North Sea would blow the UK’s carbon budget.
Harvard professor’s fossil fuel links under scrutiny over climate grant.
‘Slipping through our fingers’: New Zealand scientists distraught at scale of glacier loss.
'It’s going so fast': The decline of New Zealand's glaciers.
Sneezing in March? Why allergies feel worse than ever, and what you can do.
PM condemns salutes at rally.
The latest IPCC report makes it clear no new fossil fuel projects can be opened. That includes us, Australia.
The IPCC’s warnings are getting harder to miss.
Willow Project: what could the ‘carbon bomb’ mean for the environment?
The Guardian view on the IPCC warning: a last chance to save the planet.
World can still avoid worst of climate collapse with genuine change, IPCC says.
Cargo bikes cut congestion and pollution.
As Pacific islanders, we bear the brunt of the climate crisis. The time to end fossil fuel dependence is now.
IPCC climate crisis report delivers ‘final warning' on 1.5C.
Weather tracker: sea surface temperatures hit record high.
Humanity at the climate crossroads: highway to hell or a livable future?
From climate change ‘certainty’ to rapid decline: a timeline of IPCC reports.
Scientists deliver ‘final warning’ on climate crisis: act now or it’s too late.
Voters in city seats support ban on new coal and gas projects, poll shows.
‘Ukraine is a false justification’: America’s destructive new rush for natural gas.
Warmer autumn than usual forecast after scorching weekend smashes Australian weather records.
Malawi president declares half of country damaged by cyclone.
The Aukus deal is a crime against the world’s climate future. It didn’t have to be like this.
Beijing records hottest June day since weather records began as heatwave hits China.
World Bank offers developing countries debt pauses if hit by climate crisis.
Ecological tipping points could occur much sooner than expected, study finds.
NSW push to stop climate protesters livestreaming on Facebook labelled ‘profoundly anti-democratic’.
Loss of fossil fuel assets would not impoverish general public, study finds.
C of E divests of fossil fuels as oil and gas firms ditch climate pledges.
As a martial arts veteran, I know Zuckerberg could take Musk in a fight. But what a waste of energy!.
Climate impact of shipping under growing scrutiny ahead of key meeting.
The scientist who raised dangers of carbon dioxide in 1950s.
The climate crisis is this century’s biggest threat. We need a global finance pact that reflects the task ahead.
Woodside has huge plans to drill for oil and gas – and to meet its climate targets. How does it do it?
Half of Americans have faced ‘extreme’ weather in the last six weeks.
‘Women bear the biggest brunt of climate change,’ says climate scientist Susan Chomba.
Climate campaigner takes Surrey oil drilling case to supreme court.
Why mosses are superheroes of the plant world.
Held v Montana: the young people fighting for the climate in court.
‘A green transition that leaves no one behind’: world leaders release open letter.
Groundbreaking youth-led climate trial comes to an end in Montana.
France to shut down climate protest group citing public safety risks.
Canada is on fire, and big oil is the arsonist.
‘Hell on earth’: Phoenix’s extreme heatwave tests the limits of survival.
Health alerts issued as blistering heat scorches southern Europe.
Floods, tornadoes, heat: more extreme weather predicted across US.
UK holidaymakers: are you worried about the heat in Europe?
Europeans: are you being affected by high temperatures?
Rishi Sunak must stick to £11.6bn climate commitment, say MPs.
Football and pollution: I have always felt bad because I know what a flight causes.
Nationals accuse Labor of ‘hypocrisy’ over response to scathing APVMA report.
SCIENTIFIC KERFUFFLE ALERT! When did the Anthropocene begin and what is a golden spike?!.
Vermont governor seeks major disaster declaration from White House as state braces for more storms.
El Niño brewing in Pacific raises prospect of record-breaking heat.
UK told to prepare for possible 30% increase in uncomfortably hot days.
Climate activists glue themselves to Hamburg airport runway.
What is the UAE Cop28 plan of climate action?
US Republicans oppose climate funding as millions suffer in extreme weather.
Ancient windcatchers in Iran give architects cooling inspiration.
Arkansas warned over ‘life-threatening’ flash floods; Florida ocean temperatures hit record high.
People in Florida: have you been struggling to insure your property?
Share how you have been affected by the heat and flooding across the US.
‘They were chilled’: bated breath as beavers released in Northumberland.
The oil company CEO running the next UN climate change summit.
Time is short for Tories and Labour to show leadership on the climate crisis.
UK missing climate targets on nearly every front, say government’s advisers.
Biden’s efforts to clear wildfire fuel in US forests are falling short.
My Extinction review – cheerfully dishevelled film-maker gets stuck into climate crisis.
Current heatwave across US south made five times more likely by climate crisis.
Freak weather soaks Australian outback, dumping months of rain in two days.
‘If artificial intelligence creates better art, what’s wrong with that?’ Top Norwegian investor and art collector Nicolai Tangen.
Destruction of world’s pristine rainforests soared in 2022 despite Cop26 pledge.
Tuesday briefing: From America to India, record heatwaves are causing chaos – and it’s only June.
Dancing, feasts and faith mark life on a vanishing island – Tuvalu photo essay.
Facing extinction, Tuvalu considers the digital clone of a country.
About 6m across US at risk of extreme weather as over 700,000 without power.
Prigozhin couldn’t seal Putin’s fate. But here’s how all of us in the west still can.
Weather tracker: extreme heat to spread across southern US and Mexico.
Shipping emissions could be halved without damaging trade, research finds.
‘Coastal squeeze’: the fight to save shoreline habitats from rising tides.
‘It’s absolutely guaranteed’: the best and worst case scenarios for sea level rise.
Greenhouse gas emissions from global energy industry still rising – report.
Nobel prize winner Giorgio Parisi: ‘There’s a lack of trust in science – we need to show how it’s done’.
More than 100 killed as Storm Freddy returns to Mozambique and Malawi.
The Greenhouse Effect review – bells, birdsong and a bubble-wrapped piano.
‘Clumsy joke’: NSW Liberal candidate for Swansea filmed saying ‘I don’t believe in climate change’.
Alaska’s Willow arctic drilling project is a climate turning-point. Biden must say no.
Alaska protections announced as Biden reportedly set to approve huge oil project.
Voting teal is all very well but curbing our lifestyles to save the planet is crucial.
Scientists warn of ‘phosphogeddon’ as critical fertiliser shortages loom.
Labour planning £8bn Biden-style green energy revolution.
The Observer view on the global refugee crisis.
My Cyclone Diary: after the flood, the dread that replaces panic.
Biden denies reports that Alaska oil drilling project has been approved.
The truth about Britain’s wildlife crisis is stark: the timid BBC must let David Attenborough tell it loud and clear.
Biggest carbon credit certifier to replace its rainforest offsets scheme.
Texas youth organizers take aim at the biggest oil field in the US.
Rising temperatures in tropics to lead to lower coffee yields and higher prices, study suggests.
Fossil fuels received £20bn more UK support than renewables since 2015.
Wildfire Road review – comedy and terror on the path to climate hell.
The time for a climate trigger in Australia has hopefully, finally, belatedly come.
Smoke from Australian bushfires depleted ozone layer by up to 5% in 2020, study finds.
The Liberals can beat teals – Victoria proves it.
Tyre Extinguishers deflate tyres of 900 SUVs in ‘biggest ever action’.
Just Stop Oil activist jailed for six months for M25 disruption.
Big polluters given almost €100bn in free carbon permits by EU.
Senator takes aim at ‘bullies’ as voice row escalates.
Great Barrier Reef flagged as ‘in danger’ world heritage site. What does this mean?
Here are some crucial issues we’re covering in 2023 – with your help.
Lab-grown food is no way to nourish the planet.
Tories will not reach ‘embarrassingly poor’ nature targets by 2030, Labour says.
Rowan Williams urges wealthy to stump up cash for climate fund.
Cop15 essential reading: seven books that explain the biodiversity crisis.
Climate concern the main reason voters swung to independents at federal election, study finds.
Who will foot the bill for global climate disasters?
Melting point: could ‘cloud brightening’ slow the thawing of the Arctic?
Cash claims IR law will lead to ‘chaos and confusion’.
Gordon Brown says China must pay into climate fund for poor countries.
Rich nations have promised to pay for the climate crisis – but will they?
Global population: numbers do matter.
The Australian suburbs where more than half of properties will be uninsurable by 2030.
Science fiction exhibition in London takes visitors on a journey into space.
Truss’s policy on environment seems to be: don’t think about it.
Cutting emissions will hit growth, but costs of inaction much higher, says IMF.
Brisbane 2032 Olympics organiser defends sitting on board of fossil fuel company.
Farmers across eastern Australia brace for ‘wet drought’ as rain threatens major crop loss.
California’s three-year drought continues with no relief in sight.
The American EV boom is about to begin. Does the US have the power to charge it?
Make your pension more sustainable.
‘This is part of our world now’: can TV shows adequately reflect the climate crisis?
Cop27 climate summit’s sponsorship by Coca-Cola condemned as ‘greenwash’.
Hope amid climate chaos: ‘We are in a race between Armageddon and awesome’.
We are at a crossroads in history: Africa can and must be a leader in clean energy.
John Lewis plans ‘buy back or take back’ schemes in all product categories by 2025.
Cop27 host Egypt warns UK not to backtrack from climate agenda.
Fossil fuels in schools: industry faces pushback in fight for hearts and minds of next generation.
Wales unveils plans to triple rate of peatland restoration.
Former environment secretary urges successor not to drop nature-friendly farming scheme.
Young people demand climate justice in run-up to Cop27 UN talks.
World Bank criticised over climate crisis spending.
LA restricts water flow to wasteful celebrity mansions: ‘No matter how rich, we’ll treat you the same’.
Why we should forget about the 1.5C global heating target.
You might expect Conservatives to resist workers’ rights, but Labour? Only the Greens stand with strikers.
Megadrought in the American south-west: a climate disaster unseen in 1,200 years.
Reasons for (cautious) optimism: the good news on the climate crisis.
Tourism is sucking Utah dry. Now it faces a choice - growth or survival?
‘Transformational’: could America’s new green bank be a climate gamechanger?
UK must insulate homes or face a worse energy crisis in 2023, say experts.
Can King Charles show self-restraint and reshape British royalty for a new era?
UN chief views ‘unimaginable’ damage in visit to Pakistan’s flood-hit areas.
‘Can’t afford to live’: California heatwave leaves older adults teetering on edge.
Humanity’s moment: ‘How can we find meaning in a world that is at once both heaven and hell?’.
UN chief appeals for ‘massive’ help as flood-hit Pakistan puts losses at $30bn.
Pakistan deserves reparations for a catastrophe caused by rich countries.
‘A quiet revolution’: how will the new court of King Charles look?
‘A new way of life’: the Marxist, post-capitalist, green manifesto captivating Japan.
‘A revolution is coming’: Pakistani artist says floods must be catalyst for change.
The west is ignoring Pakistan’s super-floods. Heed this warning: tomorrow it will be you.
World on brink of five ‘disastrous’ climate tipping points, study finds.
Sadiq Khan to publish ‘practical guide’ to the climate emergency.
UN official ‘alarmed’ by jailing of climate activist who blocked traffic on Sydney Harbour Bridge.
Queensland’s Indigenous women rangers given Earthshot prize for protecting Great Barrier Reef.
Earthshot fund gives £1m to UK scientists fighting climate crisis.
‘I came into politics so I could continue to be an activist’: Steven Guilbeault on oil, idealism and being branded a traitor.
Food waste: green vegetable and potato crop glut after mild UK autumn.
A UK tree provides hundreds of pounds of benefits a year, report finds.
Environmental photographer of the year 2022.
#ClimateScam: denialism claims flooding Twitter have scientists worried.
Climate activist who blocked traffic on Sydney Harbour Bridge jailed for at least eight months.
How to move a country: Fiji’s radical plan to escape rising sea levels.
David Pocock criticises official’s ‘inappropriate’ conduct after she confronted scientific group over carbon credit evidence.
Mild November keeps UK on track for warmest year on record.
Victoria’s bold emissions target could be a turning point. Now here’s what we have to do.
Endless debates about soup and paintings serve those who’d prefer we ignore the climate crisis.
Australia is on track … sort of: official expert advice urges a ‘big upward shift’ on emissions cuts.
Plibersek’s ‘determination’ alone won’t save the Great Barrier Reef – here’s what needs to happen.
BBC’s new Trawlermen series fails to address sustainability, says coalition.
Australia’s banks likely to reduce lending to regions and sectors at risk of climate change impacts, regulator says.
Giving up on 1.5C climate target would be gift to carbon boosters, says IEA head.
‘Holy grail’ wheat gene discovery could feed our overheated world.
Bomb cyclones to atmospheric rivers: what’s causing the California deluge?
Alpine ski resorts struggle amid snow shortage.
H-bombs or chicken bones: the race to define the start of the Anthropocene.
Bude in Cornwall awarded £2m to fight climate threat.
Support for Pakistan has ebbed away – yet its deadly floodwaters have not.
Weather tracker: January temperatures smash records across Europe.
More than 100 writers sign letter in solidarity with jailed UK climate activists.
Kimberley floods: 'the worst flooding Western Australia has ever seen'.
Half of glaciers will be gone by 2100 even under Paris 1.5C accord, study finds.
The Guardian view on Europe’s heatwave: the door is closing – but there is a way out.
Population growth is a key driver of climate breakdown and biodiversity loss.
'It's heartbreaking': ski slopes forced to close as Europe experiences record warm winter.
Ministers ‘run scared’ of targeting meat consumption in land use strategy.
UK’s record hot 2022 made 160 times more likely by climate crisis.
Record warm winter in parts of Europe forces closure of ski slopes.
Climate crisis prompts RHS to plan for sending rhododendrons north.
NSW forests could become net carbon emitters in coming decades, report finds.
UK government faces legal action against new coalmine in Cumbria.
Cost of living and climate are higher global priorities than Ukraine, poll finds.
I’ve had a long battle with climate despair. Now I’m leaving the ‘denial machine’ to their demons.
Reduce the reliance on cars in urban areas.
Dutch city becomes world’s first to ban meat adverts in public.
US farmers face plague of pests as global heating raises soil temperatures.
McKim calls for Lowe to stand down.
Australia urged to ‘pull its weight’ on climate despite praise for Albanese ‘step-up’.
Give Africa’s youth a voice in shaping the climate agenda. It is their future at stake.
Dark matter and lithium water: 15 big issues poised to affect oceans and coastlines.
Scientists hope ‘world’s loneliest tree’ will help answer climate questions.
Flash flood watch under way for 80m in eastern US as heatwaves broil west.
Ethical food choices will determine Earth’s future.
‘I couldn’t date a climate change denier!’ The couples who bond – and split – over love for the planet.
Burning forests for energy isn’t ‘renewable’ – now the EU must admit it.
Anthony Albanese promises resources sector ‘orderly’ reduction in emissions.
Heatwave in North America threatens to break global September temperature record.
Dutton withdraws Albanese ‘liar’ allegation in question time.
Fear! Anxiety! DESPAIR! A guide to managing your End Times Feelings.
Rich countries caused Pakistan’s catastrophic flooding. Their response? Inertia and apathy.
Dead in their nests or washed ashore: why thousands of seabirds are dying en masse.
Greenwashing or a net zero necessity? Climate scientists on carbon offsetting.
Carbon offsets are flawed but we are now in a climate emergency.
Revealed: more than 90% of rainforest carbon offsets by biggest certifier are worthless, analysis shows.
UN head accuses fossil fuel firms of business models ‘inconsistent with human survival’.
‘Born into a time of chaos’: how being pregnant amid a climate disaster can affect children.
Outlook? Terrifying: TV weather presenters on the hell and horror of the climate crisis.
Morning Mail: multimillion-dollar GST challenge from councils, shark extinction fears, Greta Thunberg detained.
Atmospheric dust may have hidden true extent of global heating.
Banks still investing heavily in fossil fuels despite net zero pledges – study.
Love cheese and hate tofu? 14 vegan obstacles – and how to push past them.
Town where Martin Luther King Jr made historic march reels from tornado.
Climate activists vow to take to streets to stop fossil fuel extraction.
Warning of unprecedented heatwaves as El Niño set to return in 2023.
Let’s face reality. Fossil fuel interests have destroyed the Cops – we need something new.
New measures to silence climate activists? They’ll only spur us on.
Today, California is hammered by extreme weather. Tomorrow, it could be your area.
Have we reached ‘peak meat’? Why one country is trying to limit its number of livestock.
Lost for words: fears of ‘catastrophic’ language loss due to rising seas.
‘We need trees’: green vision struggles to take root in Europe’s cities.
Put all of National Grid under state control, net zero campaigners urge.
As Beijing swelters, activists hope the heat will prompt climate action.
Extreme heatwaves continue to grip US as millions under heat and air quality alerts.
Many people in Mexico without power as deadly heat leads to strain on grid.
Australian sea dumping law changes condemned amid warnings of gas industry expansion.
Drought likely in Cumbria and Lake District, government committee told.
Campaigners vow to step up action against new North Sea oilfield.
Rising seas have flooded this Lagos town three times. It may not survive a fourth.
Texas heatwave blamed for 13 deaths as scorching temperatures and smoke spread across US.
Bairstow ignored ECB security advice by dragging away Just Stop Oil protester.
The Guardian view on Rishi Sunak and net zero: a cowardly retreat.
Global heating making extreme rain and catastrophic flooding more likely.
Climate crisis linked to rising domestic violence in south Asia, study finds.
‘Whatever it takes’: the activists who risk prison to shatter Australia’s climate complacency.
Heatwave in south and wildfire smoke in north buffet US from both sides.
So what if fossil fuel lobbyists have to declare themselves at Cop28? That won’t curb their power.
A couple’s quixotic quest to save their drowning island – one rock at a time.
High costs deterring legal challenges in England and Wales to protect environment, NGOs say.
The rising ocean will extinguish more than land. It will kill entire languages.
AstraZeneca pledges to plant and maintain 200m trees globally by 2030.
How volcano magma could help meet green economy’s demand for metal.
David Pocock under pressure to block Labor’s safeguard mechanism bill after fossil fuel poll.
The battle over Labor’s key climate policy.
Coalition of independent NSW candidates vow to slow or halt coal and gas projects.
Ten Birds That Changed the World by Stephen Moss review – on a wing and a prayer.
Methane leaks: inside the 10 March Guardian Weekly.
Court restrictions on climate protesters ‘deeply concerning’, say leading lawyers.
Chinese cities hit record high temperatures for early March.
Is hydrogen really a clean enough fuel to tackle the climate crisis?
Coalition and Greens team up to force Labor to release emissions modelling.
NSW police drop claim that protest involving Deanna ‘Violet’ Coco blocked ambulance.
The creeping threat of the Great Atlantic Sargassum Belt.
Four Insulate Britain members convicted after London street blockade.
Think Sunak’s anti-refugee stance is bad? Just wait till the climate crisis truly ravages poorer countries.
Meat, dairy and rice production will bust 1.5C climate target, shows study.
Revealed: 1,000 super-emitting methane leaks risk triggering climate tipping points.
Huge carbon footprint of chemicals in UK household products revealed.
Fire, floods, drought: projections of a frightening new world.
It’s Monday morning at the government’s policy approval meeting. Next up: the climate safeguard mechanism.
The Guardian view on Dutch farmer protests: a European test case.
Moment when UN member states reach agreement on high seas treaty.
World’s oceans changing colour due to climate breakdown.
Number of people going hungry has risen by 122m since 2019, UN says.
‘Cascading impacts’ warning as Farmers becomes latest insurer to quit Florida.
Red alert: inside the 14 July Guardian Weekly.
After two years of real progress on climate, a European ‘greenlash’ is brewing.
Australia’s admission to the G7’s Climate Club could offer real change or just more marketing spin.
Extreme US weather: Vermont flooding ‘nowhere near over’, says governor.
Canadian lake chosen to represent start of Anthropocene.
Nuclear power too expensive and slow to be part of Australia’s plans to reach net zero, study finds.
Paris to charge SUV drivers higher parking fees to tackle ‘auto-besity’.
Extreme flooding seen across the world so far this summer.
US faces deadly floods in north-east and longer heatwaves in south and west.
Aerial video shows buildings swamped by deadly floods and landslides in Japan.
Proposed new UK oil and gas fields would provide at most three weeks of energy a year.
‘Heaviest rain ever’ causes deadly floods and landslides in Japan.
So what does it mean to join the world’s hottest club?
‘Uncharted territory’: UN declares first week of July world’s hottest ever recorded.
UK should press pause on deep-sea mining, Labour says.
Drop carbon offsetting-based environmental claims, companies urged.
Heatwave last summer killed 61,000 people in Europe, research finds.
What is the IPCC AR6 synthesis report and why does it matter?
Samoa PM urges world to save Pacific people from climate crisis obliteration.
The week in TV: Wild Isles; Match of the Day; Extrapolations; Nazanin; Paula – review.
‘We have money and power’: older Americans to blockade banks in climate protest.
Extrapolations review – even Meryl Streep can’t save this convoluted eco drama.
How big is your carbon footprint?
Global fresh water demand will outstrip supply by 40% by 2030, say experts.
Aukus pact shows UK’s defence strategy is a costly balancing act.
Give mature trees same protection as heritage buildings, say campaigners.
Beyond saving the koala: environmental challenges that will confront the next NSW government.
US banks are sacrificing poor communities to the climate crisis.
Russell Brand is the latest to platform climate conservative Bjørn Lomborg’s ‘reckless’ net-zero cost claims.
Budget does little to meet UK’s net zero carbon goals, say campaigners.
Climate activists must target power structures, not the public.
Young people: are you living with eco-anxiety in the UK?
US allergy season starting earlier due to global temperature rising, scientists say.
ABC staff to walk off job next week.
Climate activist Deanna ‘Violet’ Coco’s 15-month jail sentence quashed on appeal.
Catalonia launches operation to clear fish from reservoir to save drinking water.
Labour must do no more backsliding on commitments to create a green economy.
We don’t have to be overwhelmed by climate anxiety. Feel the pain, then act.
Amid the battle of Xi Jinping and Joe Biden, a new global order struggles to take shape.
Iowa meteorologist resigns after death threats over climate crisis coverage.
Caught short: lack of recycled toilet paper in UK ‘fuelling deforestation’.
Record-breaking Texas heatwave enters third week as thousands lose power.
El Niño: how the weather event is affecting global heating in 2023.
Texas governor signs bill rescinding water breaks as deadly heat grips state.
Fred Twine obituary.
Paris finance reforms could untie poor countries’ hands in climate crisis.
Senate examines role of ‘dark money’ in delaying climate action.
The sudden warming of Britain’s seas will tear through ocean life like a wildfire.
Paris climate finance summit fails to deliver debt forgiveness plan.
Halt new roads and developments adding to emissions, advisers to tell UK government.
Let weeds and climbers grow to help wildlife beat heat, says top gardener.
Governments at Paris summit to finalise climate finance roadmap.
US honeybees suffer second deadliest season on record.
Urban microclimates can turn deadly as climate crisis deepens.
Labor’s attempt to enlist Meta to fight climate activists needs scrutiny – it’s all too likely to succeed.
UK insulation scheme would take 300 years to meet government targets, say critics.
Five Times Faster by Simon Sharpe review – a radical but realistic path to net zero emissions.
Race to rescue Bude’s Pepperpot lookout tower from being swept into the sea.
Snow, floods and wildlife in peril: grueling winter leaves Yosemite scarred.
‘Headed off the charts’: world’s ocean surface temperature hits record high.
Australia’s climate battle has moved on – leaving deniers behind.
Climate crisis causing more home runs in baseball, study suggests.
Cop28 president: world needs business mindset to tackle climate crisis.
Greenhouse gas emissions rose at ‘alarming’ rate last year, US data shows.
UK agency has backed billions’ worth of aviation deals since Paris agreement.
It’s messy and slow and drowned in noise, but a change in Australia’s climate policy is under way.
Businesses in north of England ask ministers for help to hit net zero.
Phaseout of coal power far too slow to avoid ‘climate chaos’, report finds.
What’s feeding the 5,000-mile blob of seaweed growing in the Atlantic?
Seven Just Stop Oil activists convicted over London road blockade.
Ice sheets can collapse at 600 metres a day, far faster than feared, study finds.
Take it from a Canadian, ticks aren’t nice – and climate change means they’re thriving in the UK.
Fire ants are planning to destroy Australia and not in a good way.
Water ban in drought-stricken Tunisia adds to growing crisis.
Anthony Albanese announces Labor's 2030 emissions target.
Anthony Albanese commits Labor to emissions reduction target of 43% by 2030.
Woodside’s new Western Australian gas project ‘a bet against’ global 1.5C goal, report finds.
Storm Arwen shows the power grid isn’t resilient enough for a changing climate.
Labor to unveil raft of climate policies including higher 2030 emissions reduction target.
California water districts to get 0% of requested supplies in unprecedented decision.
Can the tourism industry survive the climate crisis?
UK must ‘walk the talk’ on climate action, say official advisers.
Weatherwatch: why do some still think climate change isn’t real?
Farmers in England to be paid for looking after soil health from next year.
Climate cost study authors accuse Bjørn Lomborg of misinterpreting results.
Poverty, not climate breakdown, caused Madagascar’s food crisis, finds study.
Prepare for more extreme weather, Britons warned in wake of Storm Arwen.
More bigger badder laws are coming to stop climate activists.
Renewable energy has ‘another record year of growth’ says IEA.
Rain to replace snow in the Arctic as climate heats, study finds.
A powerful and underappreciated ally in the climate crisis? Fungi.
The rising cost of the climate crisis in flooded South Sudan.
World’s vast networks of underground fungi to be mapped for first time.
Emissions rise 2% in Australia amid increased pollution from electricity and transport.
Residents capture footage of severe floods in north Queensland.
What’s behind the deadly, record-breaking floods in north Queensland?
As Australian students brace for a heatwave, is it true that schools close when the temperature exceeds 40C?
Fire chiefs warn UK is not prepared for climate crisis impacts.
Marshall Islands’ vanishing kit for a team under threat from climate crisis.
Reeves’s Heathrow expansion plans leave Labour’s green agenda grounded.
Reeves’s Heathrow third runway report was commissioned by London airport.
‘Humanure’: RHS plans rollout of first compost toilet to fertilise flowerbeds.
‘It’s incredible, the place just swarms with birdlife’: inside England’s biggest bird sanctuary.
In Trump’s fantasy politics, he can accomplish anything – but reality will prevail.
Labour warned it risks losing support for net zero if costs not spread fairly.
Leaders in the Pacific raise alarm over ‘direct impact’ of Trump’s climate retreat and aid freeze.
Trump orders USDA to take down websites referencing climate crisis.
‘Perfect rat storm’: urban rodent numbers soar as the climate heats, study finds.
‘We’d go absolutely nuts’: PM warned of Labour fight if he backs huge oilfield.
Heathrow’s third runway, Rachel Reeves and the pursuit of growth.
Britain’s favourite fish at risk of wipeout within decades, predicts report.
Farmland in England to be reduced by more than 10% under government plans.
Climate activists outraged over Biden claim he ‘practically’ declared US emergency.
Pollution at Australia’s largest Antarctic research station exceeded guidelines for almost 20 years.
Labour refuses to oppose airport expansion.
Tory peer Zac Goldsmith could be ‘very tempted’ to back Labour over climate issues - as it happened.
The Australian activists risking jail to raise the alarm on the climate crisis – Full Story podcast.
World’s oldest moss could go extinct as a result of climate crisis.
The Australian government admits its funding is supporting the gas industry. That’s politically risky.
Tory peer Zac Goldsmith says he could be tempted to back Labour on climate.
Extreme weather: glacial flooding, wildfires and hailstorms cause havoc across the world .
Amazon leaders fail to commit to end deforestation by 2030.
Drone video shows Russia's coldest city choking on smog from wildfires.
Greens back Labor after Liberal threat.
Sea ice is at historic lows meanwhile Australia wants to cut scientific research in Antarctica?!.
Liberals and Greens team up to back inquiry into axed Antarctic climate science projects.
Indigenous communities demand greater change as Amazon rainforest summit begins.
July was world’s hottest month on record, climate scientists confirm.
Two dead and hundreds of thousands without power as storm hits eastern US.
Storm Hans causes havoc in Norway with heaviest rain in 25 years forecast.
Fears over Antarctic sea ice as yearly ozone layer hole forms ‘very early’.
Sydney’s drinking water quality under threat from climate crisis, report finds.
World’s largest vats for growing ‘no-kill’ meat to be built in US.
‘It seems this heat will take our lives’: Pakistan city fearful after hitting 51C.
Egypt says climate finance must be top of agenda at Cop27 talks.
Independent candidate dismisses eligibility concerns.
Indigenous activists among Goldman environmental prize winners.
‘Go after the money’: Goldman environmental prize winner honoured for urging banks to divest from coal.
How two Goldman prize winners won landmark rulings in Dutch courts.
Teal independents flush out the Liberal party in inner-city seats across Australia.
Rural News Corp paper delivers sharp rebuke to Barnaby Joyce over Nationals’ climate ‘deniers’.
Exxon must go to trial over alleged climate crimes, court rules.
Climate group sues Dutch airline KLM over ‘greenwashing’ adverts.
Do not work for ‘climate wreckers’, UN head tells graduates.
UK finance ‘faces £340bn in losses’ without action on climate change.
Liberals must shun ‘conspiracy theorists’ of climate wars, moderate Andrew Bragg says.
Sharp cut in methane now could help avoid worst of climate crisis.
Deadly Indian heatwave made 30 times more likely by climate crisis.
‘Teal’ independents coming for state MPs next in Victoria and NSW.
Shell consultant quits, accusing firm of ‘extreme harms’ to environment.
Sinking Maldives plans to reclaim land from the ocean.
Climate sceptic thinktank reported to charity commission over fossil fuel interest funding.
Climate crisis: Africa is talking but is the west listening?
US sets new record for billion-dollar climate disasters in single year.
Greek PM under attack over handling of Storm Daniel disaster response.
Storm Daniel causes deadly floods in Libya.
Heat pumps twice as efficient as fossil fuel systems in cold weather, study finds.
Small island nations take high-emitting countries to court to protect the ocean.
Investors and unions press Labor to invest $100bn to compete in global green economy.
Barclays seeks climate director after protests over fossil fuel finance.
UK’s net zero ambitions at risk after ‘disastrous’ offshore wind auction.
Barnaby Joyce-backed push to strike net zero emissions target from Nationals policy fails.
Rishi Sunak tells G20: UK will resist ‘hair shirt’ policies on net zero pledge.
Costa del Kent: sunburn and seaweed are no deterrent as England steams on hottest day of year.
Hundreds of people rescued from flooded villages in Greece.
Global push for commitment to phase out fossil fuels gathers pace ahead of Cop28.
Rishi Sunak avoiding UN summit after being warned about potential rejection.
NHS website records 552% surge in heat exhaustion queries.
Our environmental laws are failing us in the face of the climate crisis.
Rescue efforts stepped up after deadly floods in central Greece.
Australian government backflips on cancellation of Antarctica penguin surveys.
The past years were the hottest on record. Yet we’re on track to burn more fossil fuels.
‘The science is irrefutable’: US warming faster than global average, says report.
Extreme drought in northern Italy mirrors climate in Ethiopia.
World behind on almost every policy required to cut carbon emissions, research finds.
Japan’s haiku poets lost for words as climate crisis disrupts seasons.
National Portrait Gallery criticised over choice of sponsor to replace BP.
‘It was incredible to see’: Kenyans dig deep on first national tree planting day.
Let forests grow old to store huge volume of carbon – study.
BP and Spotify bought carbon credits at risk of link to forced Uyghur labour in China.
People who build wind turbines at sea do not care if whales live or die. Monsters!.
Deal to resettle climate-hit Tuvalu residents shows world ‘what’s at stake’, European officials say.
The Guardian view on farming’s green transition: the politics aren’t looking good.
Choosing childlessness for the sake of the planet.
Emmanuel Macron pledges €1bn to fund research into melting ice caps.
Floating factories of artificial leaves could make green fuel for jets and ships.
The Observer view on Cop28: UK is turning its back on chance to lead climate fight.
‘It’s not viable any more’: global heating sparks first climate class action by Indigenous Australians.
How a false claim about wind turbines killing whales is spinning out of control in coastal Australia.
‘People are worried’: the ‘prepper’ shops serving Britons who fear doomsday is coming.
Can goats and sheep stop wildfires? This shepherdess is rallying the flock.
The mainstream left is in denial on economic growth and the climate crisis.
How scientists and the climate movement can work together.
‘It was built for this’: how design helped spare some homes from the LA wildfires.
Don’t Look Up director says ‘half a billion people’ have now seen film despite critics.
‘It’s going to be rough’: what Trump’s response to LA fires portends for future climate disasters.
Weatherwatch: Could small nuclear reactors help curb extreme weather?
Wildfires drive record leap in global level of climate-heating CO2.
LA wildfires: evacuees warned against returning to homes due to toxic waste.
‘Big oil’s negligence’: LA residents call on fossil fuel industry to pay for wildfire damages.
Australia is becoming an uninsurable nation. There may only be one solution.
Fleeing mountain lions and scorched earth: can wildlife survive California’s wildfires?
‘A ton of unknowns’: months ago, LA residents lost wildfire insurance. Then the fires came.
UK accused of undermining democratic rights with climate protest crackdown.
A town torched by LA fires rallies to revive its community: ‘Everybody wants to come back’.
BP to cut 4,700 jobs and 3,000 contractor roles to help save £1.6bn.
The media needs to show how the climate crisis is fueling the LA wildfires.
Kemi Badenoch to criticise Theresa May and Boris Johnson ‘mistakes’.
Global economy could face 50% loss in GDP between 2070 and 2090 from climate shocks, say actuaries.
California fires: LA fire crews make progress as officials expect ‘much-needed break’ from dangerous weather.
Heatwaves, flood and fire: what it's like to survive 2023's extreme weather.
Public consultation ‘overwhelmingly’ supports fuel efficiency standard for cars, Labor says.
Australia’s environment must be given legal priority over land-clearing and logging to survive, Ken Henry says.
Republican activist says party ‘deserves to lose’ if it fails to address climate crisis.
Asylum seekers in Greece ‘facing two great injustices of our time’.
City of Sydney wants to ban gas in new builds – can it do it and is it worth it?
Emperor penguins: thousands of chicks in Antarctica die due to record-low sea ice levels.
Fossil fuels being subsidised at rate of $13m a minute, says IMF.
Dining across the divide: ‘I expected him to be vegetarian, which was probably unfair’.
The message from Ecuador is clear: people will vote to keep oil in the ground.
Greek firefighters struggle to contain blazes.
Support for Australia’s UN climate bid should be linked to ceasing fossil fuel expansion, Pacific leaders say.
Longer life, ageing population, climate change: seven key takeaways from the intergenerational report.
The intergenerational report says climate is a ‘profound’ risk to Australia. But the full picture may be even worse.
Solar and windfarm investment is drying up – and Australia needs a wake-up call on the future of the electricity grid.
Amazon’s emissions ‘doubled’ under first half of Bolsonaro presidency.
Tropical forests face ‘massive leaf death’ from  global heating, study finds.
Australia urgently needs a grid upgrade – but the march of new power lines faces a bush revolt.
‘It’s a beast’: landmark US climate law is too complex, environmental groups say.
Lough Neagh ‘dying in plain sight’ due to vast algal blooms.
‘World is at boiling point’: humanity must redefine relationship with nature, says report.
Critical climate indicators broke records in 2021, says UN.
The ‘carbon bombs’ set to blow up the world’s climate pledges.
‘Community’ group linked to mining company New Hope presses ALP candidate on coalmine support.
Revealed: how the top issues voters care about are not getting aired in election campaign.
Élisabeth Borne: France’s new PM faces immediate pressure to act on climate.
Achoo! The hay fever season lasts longer than ever. Here’s what we can do about it.
Climate geoengineering must be regulated, says former WTO head.
Shut down fossil fuel production sites early to avoid climate chaos, says study.
Election 2022: are there ‘teal independents’ in your electorate? Search the full list of pro-climate action and political integrity candidates here.
Is the world keeping Cop26’s climate promises?
We must end our command-and-control relationship with the environment if we are to arrest its destruction.
Johnson’s ‘jet zero’ plan unrealistic and may make UK miss CO2 targets – report.
Former Kiribati president slams Australia’s ‘politicisation’ of climate action and power of fossil fuel lobby.
‘Is it all worth it?’: farmers left heartbroken as Queensland floods ruin crops.
Bleached sea sponges found in New Zealand waters for first time.
Help to buy EVs in ‘landmark’ New Zealand net zero climate plan.
Australian authorities to buy out fisheries, citing climate crisis.
Record number of dams removed from Europe’s rivers in 2021.
Breaking climate vows would be ‘monstrous self-harm’, warns Cop26 president.
‘We’re in serious trouble’: Why a hotter world will be bad for our health.
Green investment boom and electric car sales: six key things about Biden’s climate bill.
Orange juice prices to surge as US crops ravaged by disease and climate.
Devastating Hawaii fires made ‘much more dangerous’ by climate change.
If in drought: 10 tough Mediterranean plants (other than lavender) to heat-proof your garden.
How to protest climate change nicely, with Brenda the Civil Disobedience Penguin.
The week in wildlife.
‘Huge’ coral bleaching unfolding across the Americas prompts fears of global tragedy.
Underwater vision shows 'unprecedented' mass coral bleaching event in the Americas.
It’s time for a new climate populism, to show how the super rich got us – and the planet – into this mess.
Return of El Niño raises risk of hunger, drought and malaria, scientists warn.
Sunak government will go down in history as failing UK on climate, Greenpeace says.
‘You have adopted a bunker mentality’: Greenpeace letter to Rishi Sunak – in full.
Tory deputy chair Lee Anderson ‘very angry’ small boat arrivals numbers may have passed 100,000.
Sweden criticised over plan to build at least 10 new nuclear reactors.
Private jets are awful for the climate. It’s time to tax the rich who fly in them.
The truth is Tory voters are onboard for net zero. What’s really worrying them is how we get there.
People in Maui: how have you been affected by the wildfires?
Hundreds of buildings in historic town of Lahaina destroyed in Hawaii wildfires.
Six dead, dozens injured in Hawaiian blazes.
Cop29: poorer countries are left shortchanged again.
Cambridge water credits are a gift for developers.
Footballers at ‘very high risk of extreme heat stress’ during World Cup 2026.
South-west France swelters in ‘staggering’ 26.9C November night heat.
Newsroom edition: do voters still care about the climate during a cost-of-living crisis? – Full Story podcast.
Six things we learned about the Australian government’s response to the climate crisis.
Massachusetts farmers turn cranberry bogs back to wetlands in $6m initiative.
Defra cuts pose ‘existential threat’ to England’s most beautiful areas.
Salt water creeping up Delaware River in worrying sign for big fresh water source.
Climate denial a unifying theme of Trump’s cabinet picks, experts say.
Is it hot where you are? Spare a thought for the residents of Western Sydney.
Insurance companies should be forced to disclose calculations, inquiry says as Australians face rising premiums.
China’s CO2 emissions have peaked or will in 2025, say 44% of experts in survey.
The Guardian view on cruise ships: a licence to pollute.
Silly storm names belie their danger.
Albanese government says Australia on target to reduce emissions – but campaigners say it could do more.
Why is western Sydney so much hotter than the eastern suburbs and what can be done to make summer more bearable?
In Wales, we’re one more flood away from another disaster like Aberfan.
Selfies and surf simulators: the young cruisers driving boom in sea holidays.
Backroom deals and betrayal: how Cop29’s late $300bn deal left nobody happy.
State of emergency declared as several fires rage through Los Angeles.
The chronicle of a fire foretold.
Scientists prize neutrality – that doesn’t cut it any more. In 2025, they must fully back the climate movement.
Visual explainer: why are the LA wildfires so bad?
The Los Angeles wildfires are climate disasters compounded.
‘Essential’: nearly 800 incarcerated firefighters deployed as LA battles wildfires.
‘A day not soon forgotten’: the Palisades take stock after blazes rage.
At least five dead as overwhelmed firefighters struggle to contain LA blazes.
LA hasn't seen anything like this before: Pacific Palisades residents react to wildfires.
After ‘tremendous demand’, water tanks used for fighting LA wildfires ran dry early.
Wildfires bring pollution hazards for unhoused people in LA: ‘Like breathing in lead’.
For shiny softness … don’t wash your hair.
Moment California residents run from home as wildfires spread.
Celebrities among thousands to flee homes as Los Angeles wildfires rage.
Sweat-wicking and radiative cooling: can new fabrics make living through extreme heat more bearable?
'There's nothing left': fast-moving wildfires sweep through southern California.
Six big US banks quit net zero alliance before Trump inauguration.
Want to sponsor a piece of ocean paradise? How one Pacific island’s novel response to rising seas is paying off.
‘How long can I stay?’ Families tell of last-minute escape from California wildfire.
Brilliant: a Cop28 to save the planet – staged by oil barons who imperil it.
Australia needs ‘substantial increase’ in large-scale renewables projects to meet decarbonisation targets.
Episode one of a new podcast: Weight of the world – the climate scientists who saw the crisis coming.
Around the world, around the clock: how we report on a world on fire.
Why the Guardian’s climate and nature journalism is needed now more than ever.
Guardian environment pledge 2023.
Former world leaders seek $25bn levy on oil states’ revenues to pay for climate damage.
Revealed: Saudi Arabia’s grand plan to ‘hook’ poor countries on oil.
Cop28 host UAE planned to promote oil deals during climate talks.
Does the way we talk about the climate crisis numb people with fear, rather than energising them?
Climate crisis and energy costs fuel £600 rise in UK household food bill, analysis finds.
Too little, too late: the desperate search for cod babies.
Happy, faithful and tied to nature: life adapting to the climate crisis – photo essay.
Australian super fund puts billions into backing Britain’s energy transition.
Newcastle port: more than 100 arrested after climate protesters continue blockade past agreed deadline.
British empire’s past emissions ‘double UK’s climate responsibility’.
The wealthiest polluters must clean up their act.
Can UK’s ‘jet zero’ hopes take off with a plane fuelled by used cooking oil?
Success of Geert Wilders’ far-right PVV raises fears for Dutch climate policies.
Climate protesters arrested at Port of Newcastle blockade.
How the speed of climate change is unbalancing the insect world.
A third of Americans are already facing above-average warming.
‘We need politicians and experts’: how Chile is putting the climate crisis first.
Electric Monaros and hotted-up skateboards : the ‘genius’ who wants to electrify our world.
California subsidies for dairy cows’ biogas are a lose-lose, campaigners say.
‘Carbon footprint gap’ between rich and poor expanding, study finds.
‘We have to adapt’: US Pacific north-west weighs plans to cope with extreme weather.
Super corals: the race to save the world’s reefs from the climate crisis .
The climate crisis is wreaking havoc but sport can be a part of the solution.
‘A deranged pyroscape’: how fires across the world have grown weirder.
Extreme weather has cost Europe about €500bn over 40 years.
Does Labor’s green hydrogen plan for the Kurri Kurri gas power plant stack up?
Dry January: Reno goes a month with no rain for the first time in nearly 130 years.
Antarctica’s ‘Doomsday Glacier’ keeps scientists at bay with iceberg and sea ice.
Green opportunities missed in UK levelling up strategy, say experts.
Five Insulate Britain members jailed for defying M25 protest injunctions.
EU includes gas and nuclear in guidebook for ‘green’ investments.
Scotland hopes to save wild salmon by planting millions of trees next to rivers.
Flowers arriving a month early in UK as climate heats up.
Severe flooding leaves remote towns across Australia stranded.
How will humanity endure the climate crisis? I asked an acclaimed sci-fi writer.
How we get tree planting wrong.
‘We have to use a boat to commute’: coastal Ghana hit by climate crisis.
How Durham University turned itself green.
Labor calls for ‘grassroots mobilisation’ of religious Australians to tackle climate crisis.
Coalition and Labor claim Australia’s ageing coal plants won’t close early, but the figures don’t add up.
Comparing the Coalition and Labor’s climate modelling reveals some underlying truths.
The Guardian view on green finance: doing business as if the planet mattered.
UK ‘embarrassed’ into funding Mozambique gas project, court hears.
‘Very healthy’: Malcolm Turnbull backs climate-focused independents running in Liberal seats.
UK tax breaks for oil and gas under scrutiny from climate activists.
Swampy on tunnels, bailiffs and 25 years of protest: ‘We need to stop capitalists destroying the planet’.
National Trust to fell at least 30,000 trees hit by ash dieback.
From Siberia to US west, wildfires spewed record carbon emissions this year.
Oil companies blame clean energy transition for market volatility.
NSW police seek to auction off car of convicted anti-coal activist under Proceeds of Crime Act.
Are storms Barra and Arwen linked to climate breakdown?
Indigenous leaders urge London’s Science Museum to cut ties with Adani.
The best science books of 2021.
The richest 10% produce about half of greenhouse gas emissions. They should pay to fix the climate.
Despite 2024’s ‘greenlash’, the fight against climate breakdown can still be won. Here’s how.
What is the real toll of natural and climate disasters? Science has staggering new answers.
Canada man who ‘leapt on’ polar bear that attacked wife recovers in hospital.
How climate risks are driving up insurance premiums around the US – visualized.
Adelaide to Fiji flight makes unscheduled landing.
Weatherwatch: Why cooling white roofs cause neighbours to swelter.
Revisited: Carla Denyer and the Green party: four MPs v the climate crisis.
Fury as US argues against climate obligations at top UN court.
UN human rights expert raises concerns about US charges against climate protesters.
Small North Carolina town sues energy ‘Goliath’ in historic climate action.
The global shipping industry is on a path to net zero.
The most expensive US property for sale is a mere $295m – and likely to flood.
On the Grenadian island of Carriacou, even the dead are now climate victims.
Sandringham rail line suspended due to signal fault.
Santos calls alleged greenwashing case a ‘biased retelling’ of its net zero aspirations.
Australia accused of undermining landmark climate change case brought by Pacific nations in international court.
Ad campaign comparing Peter Dutton to Donald Trump sees Climate 200’s donations surge by $380,000.
Country people believe they’re different to city people but on key issues our views align.
Handful of countries responsible for climate crisis, top court told.
‘Ground zero for climate change’: the shoreline sculpture park coming to Miami.
Rich countries ‘trap’ poor nations into relying on fossil fuels.
Sweltering temperatures bake central US as heatwave expected to continue.
‘It’s a zeitgeist-capturer’: climate crisis and trans rights are talk of Edinburgh festival.
Montana’s landmark climate ruling: three key takeaways.
‘I’m heartbroken’: residents and tourists mourn the destruction of Lahaina.
A scuba instructor, musician, a family of four: first Hawaii victims named.
Should we name heatwaves as we do other extreme weather events?
Chris Packham: ‘I would lose my voice immediately if I went to prison for protesting’.
Mountain treelines are rising due to climate crisis, study finds.
Reforesting Scotland doesn’t need multimillionaires, say campaigners.
Inflation spiral: food prices could yet rise higher and may never come down.
‘Gigantic’ power of meat industry blocking green alternatives, study finds.
Scientists lament Southern Ocean ‘data desert’, just as climate crisis brings frightening changes.
How is Meta’s news ban affecting communications amid Canada wildfires?
Weather tracker: Nasa confirms world’s hottest July despite UK downpours.
How lobbying has stalled climate action.
MoD must act to tackle impact of climate crisis on UK forces, MPs say.
Fossil fuel firms move to dismiss climate lawsuit in Hawaii as Maui faces wildfires.
Why was there no water to fight the fire in Maui?
Wildfires in Tenerife force thousands to evacuate or stay indoors.
‘Drastic’ rise in high Arctic lightning has scientists worried.
More than 400 weather stations beat heat records in 2021.
‘Everything is at risk’: flood survivors urge Congress to change inadequate insurance.
The missing elements in our battle against the climate crisis.
‘Poor meat and ill-treated animals’: Spain in uproar over minister’s remarks.
‘The ducklings might not survive’: readers’ concerns over early spring.
England’s farmers to be paid to rewild land.
Jurors see the bigger picture: activists who were cleared in court.
Revisiting Greenville: the mountain town destroyed by California’s largest wildfire.
Filipinos count cost of climate crisis as typhoons get ever more destructive.
Fossil fuel firms among biggest spenders on Google ads that look like search results.
UK towns and cities hit by flash flooding 51 times since 2007.
Peaceful protest should be newsworthy too.
‘Extreme marine heatwave’: waters off Sydney set to break January temperature records.
Watching Don’t Look Up made me see my whole life of campaigning flash before me.
Apocalypse nowadays: the new wave of films about the end of the world.
It’s the great green reset: 10 things Britain can do now to save the planet.
La Niña weather pattern keeps temperatures in Australia down but 2021 still hotter than average.
The UK government should join us to create a fair and resilient economy.
Food for the future: helping farmers in Kenya adapt to the climate crisis.
Biden urges Congress to ‘step up’ on California aid as LA warned of ‘explosive fire growth’.
LA fires forecast to be costliest blaze in US history with estimate of over $200bn in losses.
Dangerous winds expected to amplify California wildfires as death toll hits 24.
A man still holding a garden hose. A woman who stayed with her pets. Details emerge about the LA fire victims.
Farmers need help to adapt to climate crisis.
What is happening in Los Angeles is our future.
‘It’s ironic’: how climate crisis is driving Trump push on Greenland and Panama.
‘Have some guts’: Sarah Hanson-Young challenges Labor to keep its environmental promises.
‘Particularly dangerous’ wildfire weather returns to California and could linger for months, say forecasts.
UK faces broccoli and cauliflower shortage this spring.
New year, new anxious thoughts. How is your 2025 going?
LA wildfires: death toll rises to 24 as winds threaten further destruction.
As the world burns, young Australians are feeling disbelief – and looking for answers.
Kristin Crowley: the LA fire chief publicly criticizing the city’s budget cuts.
LA fires could test Getty Center’s claim of being safest place to store artwork.
The Shetland Way by Marianne Brown review – a daughter’s journey to the heart of the climate crisis.
California fires: 16 killed and 10,000 structures destroyed as blazes continue.
Los Angeles residents return to find homes reduced to ashes.
Extreme heat in oceans ‘passed point of no return’ in 2014.
All coral will suffer severe bleaching when global heating hits 1.5C, study finds.
North Sea Abigail oilfield plan approved despite climate goals.
Flooding cuts off key railway supply routes in central Australia.
North Carolina’s coastal highway is disappearing – so I took a road trip to capture it.
A new Tory faction is ‘scrutinising’ net zero – with tactics learned from Brexit.
‘We relied on the lake. Now it’s killing us’: climate crisis threatens future of Kenya’s El Molo people.
Global count estimates Earth has 73,000 tree species – 14% more than reported.
Ethical carbon offsetting has a role to play in tackling the climate crisis.
Australian regulator finds large-scale emissions misreporting by coalminer Peabody.
Sir Crispin Tickell obituary.
Great Barrier Reef on verge of another mass bleaching after highest temperatures on record.
West accused of ‘climate hypocrisy’ as emissions dwarf those of poor countries.
UK pupils failed by schools’ teaching of climate crisis, experts say.
Should Australia’s major sports stars really be defined by fossil fuel companies trying to look good?
‘Don’t Look Up’: humanity could avert asteroid Armageddon, say scientists.
Aid agencies scale up Storm Ana response amid floods and rising death toll.
Morrison government announces $1bn pledge for Great Barrier Reef over the next decade.
The gap between Australian climate policy and the science is closing far too slowly – we have to keep up the pressure.
America’s hottest city is nearly unlivable in summer. Can cooling technologies save it?
Richest 1% account for more carbon emissions than poorest 66%, report says.
The Guardian view on new dictionary words: a parlour game that can clarify a scary reality.
Suck carbon from the air? US facility launches novel climate solution.
‘Hell de Janeiro’: scorching heat highlights Brazil’s glaring inequality.
Stay or go? Offered a future away from home, Tuvalu’s people face a painful choice.
Argentina’s electoral crossroads: far-right or centrist, but no environmental justice.
Texas: Republican-controlled school board votes against climate textbooks.
‘Like a 40-metre pizza’: the seaweed farms that could feed us all – at a cost.
‘We have given Earth a fever’: author John Vaillant on the firestorms coming for us all.
How big are the fires burning in Australia’s north? Interactive map shows they’ve burned an area larger than Spain.
UK environment secretary took donation from funder of climate sceptic thinktank.
WA government fails to back up premier’s claim expanding gas industry will be good for planet.
‘It requires planning and commitment’: how to camp sustainably.
John Vaillant wins Baillie Gifford nonfiction prize with ‘highly relevant’ work on wildfires.
School Strike 4 Climate: Australian students skip classes en masse to call for action.
School climate strike protests draw huge crowds; charges laid over Hillcrest jumping castle tragedy.
Five years on, the world is failing to learn the gilets jaunes’ lesson about class and climate.
From China’s emissions to Australia’s offshore windfarms, things are moving on climate – some even in the right direction.
Starmer says £2.5bn renewables jobs fund will help North Sea oil workers.
Life at Norway’s remote arctic fox breeding station.
We need to talk about water – and the fact that the world is running out of it.
UK teens believe they will have harder lives than their parents, research finds.
Ski resorts’ era of plentiful snow may be over due to climate crisis, study finds.
Government documents ‘blow gaping hole’ in its case for Cumbrian coalmine.
‘It makes me so sad’: church re-emerges from reservoir as Spain faces droughts.
Texas wildfires: two killed in historic blaze as up to 500 structures destroyed.
Climate activists convicted of criminal damage after smashing glass door of JP Morgan.
‘Stop insuring fossil fuel’: activists target London insurers in week of action.
Can’t afford a home battery for your solar? It might be worth joining a Virtual Power Plant.
Devolved leaders reject shortlist for climate watchdog chair over Tory links.
‘Two worlds colliding’: Berlin transport workers and climate activists unite over rights.
El Niño forecast to drive record heat from the Amazon to Alaska in 2024.
‘In Bananal, God no longer decides whether there’s water – farmers and agribusiness do’.
US spends billions on roads rather than public transport in ‘climate time bomb’.
People displaced by climate crisis to testify in first-of-its-kind hearing in US.
Scrap subsidies to Scotland’s conifer forests, urges report.
Butterflywatch: brimstones in midwinter raise adaptability issues.
Risotto crisis: the fight to save Italy’s beloved dish from extinction.
‘This is a warning’: Spain reels from devastating blazes and heatwaves.
We’re living in an age of permanent crisis – let’s stop planning for a ‘return to normal’.
Unless we act soon, this heatwave is just a taste of things to come.
Ben Goldsmith: next PM must back plan for farm subsidies to protect nature.
Just hot air? For all the Farnborough talk, zero-carbon flying remains years away.
I’ve fought wildfires for decades. None of it prepared me for the UK infernos this week.
Government establishes new measures at airports to stop FMD; 63 Covid deaths.
No Republican senator supported a climate plan – where is the party on the issue?
Europe is ablaze, Italian glaciers are collapsing. The climate crisis is here!.
‘We have travelled for a month to find grass’: climate crisis piles pressure on Senegal’s herders.
Nasa images show extreme withering of Lake Mead over 22 years.
Big Oil V the World review – how can these climate crisis deniers sleep at night?
Coalition changes allowing renewable energy agency to fund fossil fuel projects to be scrapped.
This heatwave highlights how complacent we’ve been.
Extreme heat warnings in effect in 28 states across US.
Revealed: oil sector’s ‘staggering’ $3bn-a-day profits for last 50 years.
A 17-minute flight? The super-rich who have ‘absolute disregard for the planet’.
Nationals say Labor ‘asleep at the wheel’ as more FMD fragments found.
Climate emergency is a legacy of colonialism, says Greenpeace UK.
Wellcome Trust sells stakes in large oil and mining companies.
Kamala Harris could set ‘new high bar for climate ambition’, advocates say.
George Monbiot on the record jail terms given to Just Stop Oil activists.
Pollution plan ‘must cut intensive farming for Lough Neagh to survive’.
German punks launch ‘invasion’ of holiday island favoured by elite.
What is art for, if not for political discourse.
I am a sweaty woman – and I am not ashamed.
‘Massacred for TikTok likes’: is social media feeding the slaughter of 2.6m birds in Lebanon?
Half of Kew tree species at risk of death owing to climate crisis, study finds.
Sick leaves: tea growers’ climate misery leads to jump in UK prices.
The Guardian view on GB Energy: a good idea turns up just in time.
Luxury ute tax loophole costs Australians $250m a year, researchers say.
Could robot weedkillers replace the need for pesticides?
‘It affects everything’: why is Hollywood so scared to tackle the climate crisis?
Cop29 host Azerbaijan seeks $1bn from fossil fuel producers for climate fund.
Cultivated food: from lab grown burgers to medicinal berries.
‘Not acceptable in a democracy’: UN expert condemns lengthy Just Stop Oil sentences.
You may find Just Stop Oil annoying. You may dislike their tactics. But they do not belong in prison.
Car camping and fighting wildfires: what are the new US climate jobs?
CrowdStrike has ‘issued a fix’ to Windows outage.
Reality check: the Reform UK party’s claims on the climate crisis examined.
Why are Green parties polling badly for the European elections?
It was all eco: Coldplay beats emissions target for world tour – via kinetic dancefloors and trains.
The warring conmen at the heart of a €5bn carbon trading scam.
Improving energy supply in Pakistan could save 175,000 lives, says Unicef.
Botanist Robin Wall Kimmerer: ‘The clock is ticking but the world will teach us what we need to do’.
Global rich must pay more to tackle climate crisis, says architect of Paris deal.
What’s behind the global orange juice supply crisis and will Australian prices be affected?
Devastating Brazil floods made twice as likely by burning of fossil fuels and trees.
Trump’s $1bn pitch to oil bosses ‘the definition of corruption’, top Democrat says.
Hot summer may bring 8% rise in utility costs for many people across the US.
May and spring were warmest on record in UK, Met Office says.
How heat affects the body – inside and out.
Chainsaws for all! I live on a rural island where we share all our tools.
Weather tracker: Finland endures unseasonal heat while deadly heatwave hits Mexico.
UK election debates must make climate crisis a key issue, say green groups.
Debt payments by countries most vulnerable to climate crisis soar.
Simon Armitage: Poets can fight climate crisis by making us spellbound by nature.
Are the climate wars really over, or has a new era of greenwashing just begun?
My Climate View: online tool allows Australian farmers to project changes out to 2070.
Nation records 78 Covid deaths.
‘People are waking up’: fight widens to stop new North Sea fossil fuel drilling.
Metropolis meltdown: the urgent steps we need to take to cool our sweltering cities.
What is ‘renewable gas’ and is it really just around the corner?
Labor backing fossil fuel projects could scupper Greens support for 43% target.
Sir Patrick Vallance gives emergency climate briefing to UK MPs.
UK weather: London mayor orders emergency response to heatwave.
Cop27 summit must focus on how world will adapt to climate change, says UN envoy.
More than 700 aged care Covid outbreaks.
Stick with net zero targets for good of economy, businesses urge next PM.
Tour de France: climate protesters stop 10th stage of race.
Climate adaptation bill for African countries to dwarf health spending.
Northern Italy drought threatens olive oil, risotto rice and passata supplies.
With Yosemite’s giant sequoias at risk, firefighters place hope in prescribed burns.
Australia’s farcical climate policy: market forces to cut emissions and subsidies to destroy carbon sinks.
Dangerous heatwaves engulf parts of China, US and Europe.
The Tory green consensus is breaking – this leadership contest could spell the end of net zero.
New Tory leader won’t ditch UK’s net-zero target, says minister.
End of rapid Covid test and telehealth subsidies criticised.
Nearly $2tn of damage inflicted on other countries by US emissions.
‘Energy turmoil’ looms unless demand is checked, says Cop28 president.
UK ministers in court again over net zero plans.
Labour must act to save the environment – here’s my three-point plan.
The public wants clean energy – but this is Australia, where the climate wars never die.
‘Assault on rights of juries’: activist decries Tory challenge to legal defence for protesters.
Ten of Australia’s top companies lack clear plans to stop using or supporting fossil fuels, report says.
Boston promised snow – and gave me rain. Can you hear my heart breaking?
WA heatwave: Perth breaks records with seven February days above 40C.
The Guardian view on festivals and the future: bound together by the power of a shared vision.
Saturation point: Australia’s best known carbon-neutral farm can no longer offset its emissions.
To revive Britain from recession the next government must get growth right.
The perfect storm for small talk? Weather forecasters aim at long-range accuracy.
Very cool: trees stalling effects of global heating in eastern US, study finds.
February on course to break unprecedented number of heat records.
Be brave, stay positive, find your tribe: three climate activists explain how to get started.
The Price Is Wrong by Brett Christophers review – why capitalism can’t save the planet.
End fossil-fuel era to address colonial injustices, urges prominent historian.
What will Spain look like when it runs out of water? Barcelona is giving us a glimpse.
Nearly 15% of Americans don’t believe climate change is real, study finds.
AI will be help rather than hindrance in hitting climate targets, Bill Gates says.
Visualized: the parts of the US where summer heat has risen the most.
Sharp rise in number of climate lawsuits against companies, report says.
As the Coalition goes nuclear, Labor is free to ensure fossil fuels are burned with abandon and little scrutiny.
Lawyers could charge big oil with homicide after 2023 Arizona heatwave.
Belching livestock to incur green levy in Denmark from 2030.
Air freight greenhouse gas emissions up 25% since 2019, analysis finds.
German activists take government to court over climate policy.
Sarah Finch: climate activism ‘early adopter’ behind supreme court win.
‘You’re letting our generation down’: the green activists warning of a bad deal for young people under Labour.
‘Reform or go out of business,’ carbon offsetting industry told.
Politicians warned against taking advantage of Qantas compensation payments.
It doesn’t make sense: why US tariffs on Chinese cleantech risk the green transition.
Kyoto review – 1997 protocol on climate crisis fuels gripping theatre at the RSC.
‘Most of it was dead’: scientists discover one of Great Barrier Reef’s worst coral bleaching events.
US pledges to be a climate finance leader but defends gas expansion.
Newly identified tipping point for ice sheets could mean greater sea level rise.
Rising sea levels will disrupt millions of Americans’ lives by 2050, study finds.
EU-regulated ‘sustainable’ funds invest £14bn in biggest polluters.
Fury road: a forlorn hope that, for once, Australia would choose the hard path on climate.
Europe’s record summer of heat and fires – visualised.
UK cities need to prepare for future wildfires, say fire chiefs.
Learning how to cope with ‘climate doom’.
WA ring road approved by federal government threatens ancient trees and endangered wildlife.
Why Yosemite’s Oak fire is burning with such ferocity – explained.
Typically mild Pacific north-west braces for another blazing heatwave.
Six staffers arrested after climate sit-in at Chuck Schumer’s office.
Housebuilding standards need a climate update.
Afghanistan is facing a climate calamity – it’s time the world took notice.
Albanese government bolsters climate bill in attempt to win support of teal independents.
Wildfires continue to burn across France and Spain.
Disney VIP world tour will emit 6.2 tonnes of carbon for each guest.
Freezing point climbs to record high above Swiss Alpine summits.
France orders air-conditioned shops to save energy by shutting doors.
If Biden isn’t willing to really fight the climate crisis, he shouldn’t run in 2024.
Thanks to Covid, music festivals have been on hiatus. But not any more, they’re back! OR ARE THEY!?
Falling birds and dehydrated hedgehogs: heatwave takes its toll on UK wildlife.
Oak fire remains uncontained as Al Gore warns ‘civilization at stake’.
As parliament returns, Albanese must not lose sight of his promise to leave no one behind.
David Pocock calls for ‘climate trigger’ in environment laws ahead of new parliament opening.
Some climate groups urge Biden to stand down, fearing a Trump win.
Extreme heat may be crucial factor in human spread of bird flu.
Do you think things are generally getting better or worse? Are you a Pollyanna or a Misery Kevin?
Six million people at risk from extreme heat in England, campaign group warns.
US oil company ran 1977 article predicting climate crisis could cause starvation.
A few days of sunshine won’t fool me – we’re in the UK’s worst summer ever.
New Zealand will fail to meet 2050 net zero targets, data shows, after climate policies scrapped.
US government urged to declare wildfire smoke and extreme heat major disasters.
The Rutles’ Ron Nasty and the row over Rod and God.
From green energy to rivers, environment at heart of nine plans in king’s speech.
UK first European country to approve lab-grown meat, starting with pet food.
Record rainfall hits parts of Toronto.
Mining giant to cut 700 jobs.
Londoners should be charged for paving gardens, says climate resilience report.
Firefighters contain wildfire threatening 200 homes on Hawaiian island of Kauai.
Buses, trains and bicycle paths: Labour’s mission to decarbonise UK transport.
Citizens’ assemblies could work wonders for Labour and Britain – but only if they’re more than a talking shop.
Band’s gig postponed amid deportation call.
Matt Kean tells clean energy industry to speak out against vested interests ‘undermining the transition’.
Can the climate survive AI’s thirst for energy?.
Protesting Indian farmers endure severe heatwave.
Revealed: The rural Californians who can’t sell their businesses – because LA is their landlord.
Wealthy white men are UK’s biggest transport polluters, study finds.
Global sales of polluting SUVs hit record high in 2023, data shows.
Majority of US voters support climate litigation against big oil, poll shows.
Be a better tourist! 28 ways to have a fantastic holiday – without infuriating the locals.
No Tory MPs voted positively on climate issues since party took power, study finds.
Where the wild things are: the untapped potential of our gardens, parks and balconies.
What causes turbulence on flights and which routes around the world are most affected?
On Australia’s climate and extinction crises, the major parties both have questions to answer.
Hobbyist archaeologists identify thousands of ancient sites in England.
Wedding without waste: how I got married without the usual 400lb of trash.
Humanity’s survival is still within our grasp – just. But only if we take these radical steps.
World has ‘moral responsibility’ to help small island states survive climate crisis – UN agency chief.
In brief: A Person Is a Prayer; Warming Up; The Seventh Son – reviews.
Licence to probe: the liberating beauty of fiction after journalism.
Just Stop Oil ‘alienates people’ from its cause, says Ed Miliband.
‘It’s honest beauty’: the net-zero homes paving the way for the future.
‘I want people to wake up’: Nemonte Nenquimo on growing up in the rainforest and her fight to save it.
The Maldives faces existential threat from a climate crisis it did little to create. We need the world’s help now.
Car companies face pressure to leave Australian industry group after documents reveal its lobbying on emissions.
Senate passes $739bn healthcare and climate bill after months of wrangling.
Climate bill could slash US emissions by 40% after historic Senate vote.
Labor’s climate bill and the power of the Australian Greens.
Australian fuel efficiency standards could have saved motorists $5.9bn, research shows.
Facts must rise above the gas if Australia is to deal with the climate crisis.
The Tories have failed to ‘get climate done’ – so I’ve launched a new centre-right party.
‘There are no safe levels of pollution’: an interview with wildfire researcher Sam Heft-Neal.
Chaos after heat crashes computers at leading London hospitals.
‘Zombie government’: more than half of departments delay key decisions.
Spider crabs swarm Cornish beaches as sea temperatures rise.
‘Change is coming’: Meet the Englishman prepping for climate apocalypse in an old German barracks.
Revealed: BP’s ‘greenwashing’ social media ads as anger over fuel costs rose.
‘Fire-breathing dragon clouds’: a wildfire-fueled phenomenon explained.
The week in Australian politics with Amy Remeikis: a historic week.
Great Barrier Reef’s record coral cover is good news but climate threat remains.
Liz Truss heckled by climate activists at Conservative hustings.
‘Shame on you’: Liz Truss speech at Eastbourne hustings interrupted by climate activists.
The Guardian view on accelerating global heating: follow the science.
Don’t let firms get away with greenwashing bluster.
Cop28 deal will fail unless rich countries quit fossil fuels, says climate negotiator.
Unions tell Starmer of members’ anger over Gaza ceasefire position.
The Red Cross is already green.
Climate crisis ignored by Republicans as Trump vows to ‘drill, baby, drill’.
Meadow brown butterflies ‘adapt’ to global heating by developing fewer spots.
‘Deadliest outbreak ever seen’: climate crisis fuels Bangladesh’s worst dengue epidemic.
US climate scientist’s defamation case over online attacks finally comes to trial.
Climate crisis to increase cancer risk for tens of millions of people in Bangladesh.
EU bans ‘misleading’ environmental claims that rely on offsetting.
Greenland losing 30m tonnes of ice an hour, study reveals.
Why is it so cold in the UK right now – and how long will Arctic chill last?
More than 160 elephants die in Zimbabwe, with many more at risk.
Santos has scored a legal victory in the battle over its $5.8bn Barossa pipeline. But how significant is it?
Crises have split European voters into five ‘tribes’, survey suggests.
Global heating pushes mountain goats into more nocturnal lifestyle.
Deteriorating flood defences blamed on Environment Agency budget shortfalls.
This pristine lake has endured for 2m years. Why are its fish in crisis?
Third of UK teenagers believe climate change exaggerated, report shows.
Shell faces shareholder rebellion over climate activist resolution.
Is guilt-free flying on the horizon?.
The Guardian view on Labour eyeing green cuts: they would undermine growth and climate goals.
Madeleine Watts: ‘Climate change should be in everyone’s writing right now’.
Never mind the planet’s fate when the jet set feel the urge to seek out some winter sun.
Keir Starmer faces backbench rebellion over ‘shortsighted’ cuts to aid budget.
Labor backs household batteries in bid to win over voters on cost-of-living and climate worries.
JP Morgan’s ‘sustainable’ funds invested £200m in mining giant Glencore.
Japan battles largest wildfire in decades.
Australia’s second-hottest summer in 2024-25 ‘not possible without climate change’, scientist says.
Peter Dutton’s nuclear plan is off in the never-never, but our power bills and emissions pledge are not.
Surge in marine heatwaves costs lives and billions in storm damage – study.
Weatherwatch: marine ‘hot spot’ could change makeup of British fish species.
‘Cruel and thoughtless’: Trump fires hundreds at US climate agency Noaa.
‘We used to think the ice was eternal’: Colombia looks to a future without glaciers.
Meet Chonkus: the CO2-chomping alga that could help tackle the climate crisis.
The Coalition’s attack on the climate authority is a cynical attempt to put ideology over facts – it must be called out.
Sussex to launch UK’s first climate justice undergraduate degree.
Why has BP pulled the plug on its green ambitions?
Total collapse of vital Atlantic currents unlikely this century, study finds.
Room for both Heathrow and Gatwick to expand, says airport boss.
There were never any climate havens: floods in the midwest, hurricanes in Appalachia.
A second US exit could ‘cripple’ the Paris climate agreement, warns UN chief.
If Trump is re-elected, a familiar face may lead the fight against wind: RFK Jr.
NSW police take legal action to prevent climate activists blockading Port of Newcastle.
Valencians question lack of warning in wake of devastating Spain floods .
EU emissions fall by 8% in steep reduction reminiscent of Covid shutdown.
Indigenous cultural burning managed Australia’s bushfires long before colonisation. It’s needed now more than ever, a study says.
Alaska governor awards $1m in state funds to Indigenous group backing oil drilling.
Spain floods: number killed passes 150 as scientists say climate change ‘most likely explanation’ – as it happened.
The new folk horror: nature is coming to kill you!.
Almost two dozen countries at high risk of acute hunger, UN report reveals.
Heat is on for Halloween as record temperatures forecast for much of US.
Spain flood death toll expected to rise amid anger over lack of preparedness.
‘Not just a museum’: Kenya’s seed bank offers unexpected lifeline for farmers.
Alarm grows over ‘disturbing’ lack of progress to save nature at Cop16.
‘We were trapped like rats’: Spain’s floods bring devastation and despair.
Spain’s deadly floods and droughts are two faces of the climate crisis coin.
‘Wicked problem’: five charts that show how the climate crisis is making Australia more dangerous.
'Europe ready to help': Ursula von der Leyen pledges aid after deadly floods in Spain.
Firefighters were elated after a federal bill provided them support for cancer. Then came ‘a slap in the face’.
‘You can’t shoot climate change’: Richard Seymour on how far right exploits environmental crisis.
Azerbaijan appoints no women to 28-member Cop29 climate committee.
‘Cheaper to save the world than destroy it’: why capitalism is going green.
Tractors shut down roads in Berlin in protest against greener farming policies.
What’s behind Australia’s love affair with SUVs? – Full Story podcast.
The Ukraine war is no excuse for endless fossil fuel expansion.
PR giant Edelman worked with Koch network, despite climate pledges.
Why has Australia been hit with so much rain? – Full Story podcast.
‘Her waters break and the flood comes’: author behind new Jodie Comer film on motherhood in an apocalyptic London.
Sunak ‘dodging scrutiny’ by failing to appoint chair of Climate Change Committee.
Doubt and flooding rains: how an unusual El Niño has affected Australian farmers.
Climate, chaos and war fill a doomy agenda at Davos.
Grouse and kestrels on the wane as climate crisis hits Scottish wildlife.
Human ‘behavioural crisis’ at root of climate breakdown, say scientists.
A fossil fuel plant is leaving Louisiana families with ‘barely enough water for your toothbrush’.
Storms should be named after fossil fuel companies.
‘Off the charts’: 2023 was hottest year ever recorded globally, US scientists confirm.
As a psychologist I have witnessed a surge in climate grief. This is what I tell my clients.
‘We had a third of the Earth to ourselves’: the band that’s spent four years touring the world by sea.
‘The high life can be low carbon’: the European royals taking on the climate crisis.
Ireland targets 25% cut in agriculture emissions but farmers voice anger.
Mediterranean ecosystem suffering ‘marine wildfire’ as temperatures peak.
Fears that Egypt may use Cop27 to whitewash human rights abuses.
Asos, Boohoo and George at Asda investigated over eco-friendly claims.
Fare deal: Ireland joins Europe-wide efforts to coax people out of cars.
How climate change is melting the Alps’ glaciers.
Why it’s not just the heat from heatwaves that puts us at risk.
Climate breakdown made UK heatwave 10 times more likely, study finds.
The Coalition’s refusal to engage on climate legislation abandons the sensible centre of Australian politics.
Joe Biden hails Senate deal as ‘most significant’ US climate legislation ever.
What’s in the climate bill that Joe Manchin supports – and what isn’t.
Activists surprised and relieved at Manchin’s decision to back climate bill.
Climate targets at risk as countries lag in updating emission goals, say campaigners.
Centre-right Climate party launches to oust Tory MPs opposing climate action.
Humanity can’t equivocate any longer. This is a climate emergency.
Green party urges Tory leadership rivals to commit to tougher climate goals.
How the boom in air conditioning is fuelling global heating.
Cool periods in UK are warmer than they used to be, say weather experts.
Australian super funds must pressure companies to cut emissions, former Bank of England chief says.
Which Tory leadership candidate is the ‘greenest’?
Dangerous heat is a real threat for the 2026 World Cup. Are teams ready?
‘A dream experiment’: our Australian icebreaker is on a crucial mission to Antarctica.
Is climate change supercharging Tropical Cyclone Alfred as it powers towards Australia?
Butterfly population in US shrinking by 22% over last 20 years, study shows.
This food researcher is on a mission to make fake meat taste better. Will she succeed?
BP cuts boss’s pay by 30% after company misses profit targets.
What is this era of calamity we’re in? Some say ‘polycrisis’ captures it.
Global sea ice hit record low in February, scientists say.
UK’s richest can boost climate action but need to cut outsized emissions – study.
Why are beavers being released into England’s rivers? What you need to know.
The fact that humans can only survive on Earth doesn’t bother Trump – and I know why.
World’s biggest iceberg runs aground after long journey from Antarctica.
‘Unusually strong’ storms bring risk of tornadoes and flash floods to US south.
First Trump threatened to nuke hurricanes. Now he’s waging war on weather forecasters.
Power struggle: will Brazil’s booming datacentre industry leave ordinary people in the dark?
‘People see it as invasive’: did anti-green feeling fuel the right’s rise in Germany?
Plant diverse tree species to spread risk in climate crisis, study says.
BP dropping its green ambitions is a travesty. But that’s exactly how capitalism works.
Hot cross buns are an Easter treat, not a year-round staple.
Trump purge raises extinction threat for endangered species, fired workers warn.
What’s at stake for the climate if Trump wins?.
Ex-Tory minister defends Labour in Trump row and says he has also campaigned for Democrats.
Disaster dining: cookouts became a lifeline in a hurricane-ravaged North Carolina city.
‘Hottest year I’ve ever experienced’: canvassers in Nevada grapple with heat as they work to mobilise voters.
‘I had to fill the tub with ice water’: Americans on how they climate-proof their homes.
Bill Maher puts the fate of the Great Barrier Reef in the spotlight – but something’s missing from the soundbites.
‘We don’t know where the tipping point is’: climate expert on potential collapse of Atlantic circulation.
Guardians of the Gibbons: animal-human harmony hangs in the balance.
Guardians of the Gibbons: can India save its only ape species from extinction?
Lady Scotland urges Commonwealth members to continue climate action support.
Cop29 host Azerbaijan set for major fossil gas expansion, report says.
Terrawatch: mystery of Siberian explosive craters solved.
Western Australia is tearing up environmental protections – and taking a bet the rest of the country won’t notice.
Urban green spaces have vital role in cutting heat-related deaths, study finds.
No need to be so down on carbon capture.
North Carolina farms face depleted, toxic soil after historic Helene flooding.
Miliband faces crunch decision on speed of greenhouse gas cuts.
Meteorologists could be climate change heroes by relaying its urgency to the public.
The Colour of Extinction by SC Flynn review – into the darkness… or the light?
Matt Kean lambasts ‘wild fantasy’ of former Coalition colleagues to extend coal power and build nuclear plants.
Morning mail: Boris Johnson resigns, Penny Wong to meet Chinese minister, tissue shortage.
‘Far from adequate’: former Pacific leaders group urges Australia to increase 43% emissions cut.
Plant-based meat by far the best climate investment, report finds.
Anti-green MP Steve Baker considering running for PM.
Albanese says he’ll treat Putin with ‘contempt’ if paths cross at G20 summit.
‘A truce with the trees’: Rebecca Solnit on the wonders of a 300-year old violin.
Prospective EA chair refuses to divest from firm chosen for government project.
Conservatives blame the energy crisis on net zero climate goals – but what is really going on?
‘All that’s needed is a spark’: why the US may be headed for a summer of mega-fire.
What’s behind Sydney’s latest floods?
Global dismay as supreme court ruling leaves Biden’s climate policy in tatters.
Rooted by Sarah Langford; Regenesis by George Monbiot reviews – how to fix farming.
Specieswatch: why the spiky lesser weaver fish is heading north.
It’s democracy v plutocracy – this is the endgame for our planet.
Bangladesh’s catastrophic flooding: the climate crisis frontline.
Just Stop Oil campaigners glue themselves to Da Vinci copy in Royal Academy.
Snow at one of world’s highest observatories melting earlier than ever before.
‘Every year it gets worse’: on the frontline of the climate crisis in Bangladesh.
I led the US lawsuit against big tobacco for its harmful lies. Big oil is next.
Scientists warn MEPs against watering down EU deforestation law.
UK academics urge Royal Society to condemn fossil fuel industry.
Massive economic pain for Australia if temperature rises exceed 2C, intergenerational report predicts.
G20 poured more than $1tn into fossil fuel subsidies despite Cop26 pledges – report.
Volcanoes and wildfires offset 20% of global heating over eight years.
Australians urged to prepare for most significant bushfire season since black summer.
Climate crisis made spate of Canada wildfires twice as likely, scientists find.
Bacteria that ‘eat’ methane could slow global heating, study finds.
Activists hit with restraining orders lawyer claims will stop them speaking out about Woodside.
Investment in new Australian wind and solar farms stalls amid ‘raft of barriers’, report finds.
People trapped in motorhome as Storm Hilary brings historic amount of rainfall.
The Hawaii fires are a dire omen of the climate crisis’s cost to Pacific peoples.
We need to work out a way forward on rising migration – the alternative is mass drownings.
I’ve spent 40 years in Antarctic research. Right now it’s facing a climate emergency so we must not put vital science on ice.
What role did the climate crisis play in Storm Hilary – and could there be more like it?
The ‘no jet’ set: actors back campaign to cut climate impact of ‘celebrity riders’.
Anger is most powerful emotion by far for spurring climate action, study finds.
Zero-degree line at record height above Switzerland as heat and fire hit Europe.
The US and China must unite to fight the climate crisis, not each other.
Greeks yearn for an Aegean islands escape, but even before this hellish summer we were being priced out.
I regret none of the climate policies we pushed in Ireland. But we underestimated the backlash.
Britain leads the world in cracking down on climate activism, study finds.
The town that fears losing its high street to climate change.
Global food production at increased risk from excess salt in soil, UN report warns.
Monarch butterflies to be added to threatened species list in the US.
Arctic tundra is now emitting more carbon than it absorbs, US agency says.
Storm Darragh showed me how unprepared my family – and Britain – are for disaster.
Ministers must reassure consumers feeding cattle Bovaer is safe, says Lady Sheehan.
Small island nations face climate-induced ‘catastrophe’, warn experts.
EU should ban space mirrors and other solar geoengineering, scientists say.
How anger at Australia’s rollout of renewables is being hijacked by a new pro-nuclear network.
‘I feel dizzy but I can’t stop’: global heating is already making kiln workers’ lives unbearable. And it will only get worse.
Drylands now make up 40% of land on Earth, excluding Antarctica, study says.
Climate crisis deepens with 2024 ‘certain’ to be hottest year on record.
Female footballers have shown us how – let’s build a sport free of fossil fuel deals.
Younger people at greater risk of heat-related deaths this century – study.
Doctor, Doctor, there’s a problem with my planet.
The 2024 Nature Conservancy Oceania photo contest winners.
Call for greener planning rules after M&S London redevelopment given go-ahead.
Rich countries hit $100bn climate finance goal two years late, data shows.
Jury clears climate protesters of causing damage to HSBC London HQ.
Climate anxious? Here’s how you can turn apprehension into action.
As a student, I’m striking for climate action. If you’re worried or angry about the climate crisis, join us.
Like father, like daughter: why Vanessa Kerry is demanding action on climate and health.
How the climate crisis is affecting breeding birds.
At risk: 10 ways the changing climate is creating a health emergency.
Allowing Cumbria coalmine was ‘disaster’ for climate diplomacy, says Lord Turner.
Nitrogen wars: the Dutch farmers’ revolt that turned a nation upside-down.
US and China’s joint climate plan leaves key questions unanswered.
China and US pledge to fight climate crisis ahead of Xi-Biden summit.
‘I’m staggered this isn’t front-page news’: the ‘provocative’ climate art that ended up in a cathedral.
Climate-heating gases reach record highs, UN reports.
Jamaica’s dengue fever outbreak shows the deadly effects of record heat.
Dust, hail and bank loans: the Mongolian herders facing life without grass.
Cop28 host UAE has world’s biggest climate-busting oil plans, data indicates.
Australian schoolchildren to strike for climate action on Friday backed by ‘climate doctor’s’ note.
‘Paying in lives’: health of billions at risk from global heating, warns report.
Virgin says Australian airlines should reduce emissions by buying greener fuel for overseas carriers.
‘Politicians aren’t doing their jobs’: teens escorted from Victorian parliament after climate change protest.
One in five UK councils have no climate action plan, campaigners say.
‘Word salad of nonsense’: scientists denounce Jordan Peterson’s comments on climate models.
Rocketing demand for fossil fuels could deal blow to climate goals, report says.
Regions growing coffee, cashews and avocados at risk amid global heating.
UK electric vehicle charging network is lagging behind, says Volkswagen.
Fish growth slowed by high temperatures and plastic chemical BPA, research finds.
Morrison government urged to stop using northern Australia fund for fossil fuel projects.
Low-carbon ambitions must not interfere with ‘normal life’, says Xi Jinping.
Carbon offsetting is not warding off environmental collapse – it’s accelerating it.
Bean burrito or beef burrito? Restaurants try messages on menus to help diners order less meat.
‘He’s a villain’: Joe Manchin attracts global anger over climate crisis.
‘Once-in-a-lifetime opportunity’: the stunning comeback of a tornado-wrecked town.
Oatly ads banned by UK watchdog over ‘misleading’ green claims.
Oil firms accused of scare tactics after claiming climate lawsuits ‘a threat to US’.
At least four killed after tropical Storm Ana hits Malawi and Mozambique.
Life in the Arctic: how climate change is killing a culture.
Rising temperatures threaten future of Winter Olympics, say experts.
McKinsey: fundamental transformation of global economy needed for net zero.
‘Helps peddle myths’: Australia’s Tour Down Under facing pressure to dump Santos as sponsor.
‘It’s a slow catastrophe’: artists try to tackle the dangers of rising sea levels.
The Observer view on Britain’s climate crisis targets.
Colorado wildfire: three feared dead and hundreds of homes destroyed as Biden declares disaster.
Sands of time are slipping away for England’s crumbling coasts amid climate crisis.
You don’t need to travel long distances to spot birds, Britain’s twitchers urged.
‘Real reasons to hope’ on climate action, says archbishop of Canterbury.
Before Australia’s climate wars: when a Coalition cabinet leaned towards positive action.
UK’s mild winter puts some butterflies and burrowers at risk.
2021: a year of climate crisis in review.
‘I thought I was broken’: when wildland firefighters head home, trauma takes hold.
Horizon scan: the opportunities and threats facing Earth’s biodiversity.
Floods, fires, freezes: how 2021 made Joe Biden a climate crisis president.
The climate victories of 2021 that put fossil fuels in check.
‘We’ll get it done. Come hell, high water or Covid’: Can 2022 be a super year for nature?
‘Extraordinary is no longer extraordinary’: US scientists on a year of climate disasters.
‘It parodies our inaction’: Don’t Look Up, an allegory of the climate crisis, lauded by activists.
In Australia’s climate wars, delay and deception are the new denial.
I’m a climate scientist. Don’t Look Up captures the madness I see every day.
Alok Sharma: Cop26 must not become ‘bunch of meaningless promises’.
‘Our house was gone, it was sea and sand’: life on the vanishing coasts.
From Kremlin leak to sperm counts: our readers’ favourite stories of 2021.
In utterly unsurprising news, Maga blames diversity for the Los Angeles wildfires.
How the climate crisis fuels devastating wildfires: ‘We have tweaked nature and pissed it off’.
We built our world with fire. Now heat is destroying our lives.
Los Angeles is on fire and big oil are the arsonists.
California wildfire victims pick up pieces as blazes rage on – in photos.
2024 was hottest year on record for world’s land and oceans, US scientists confirm.
The Guardian view on the LA fires: Donald Trump’s denial and division fuel climate inaction.
Winter storm threatens 80m as US south faces heavy snowfall and closures.
After the fire, the insurance battles: LA victims’ ordeal may just be beginning.
As wildfires devastate LA, Republicans point fingers at Democratic California leaders.
To resist the climate crisis, we must resist the billionaire class.
US right wing fans misinformation fires as firefighters battle Los Angeles blazes.
National Trust to restore nature across area bigger than Greater London.
Hottest year on record sent planet past 1.5C of heating for first time in 2024.
Fires like those in LA could hit Sydney or Melbourne. How prepared are we?
World’s richest use up their fair share of 2025 carbon budget in 10 days.
Burned homes and rattled nerves: Altadena residents grapple with toll of deadly LA blaze.
LA wildfires: key things to know about the blazes so far.
Revealed: how a US public university courted the gas industry despite climate impacts.
What are the Santa Ana winds fueling the California wildfires?
Wildfires are raging through the US west. Here’s how to protect yourself.
Fast-moving wildfire destroys homes as strong winds hit southern California.
Fire reaches Getty Villa museum grounds in California, but structures not burned.
Fast-moving wildfire consumes Los Angeles county as residents evacuate.
Canals have vital role to play in UK’s climate resilience, says charity.
World’s climate fight needs fundamental reform, UN expert says: ‘Some states are not acting in good faith’.
Male mosquitoes to be genetically engineered to poison females with semen in Australian research.
Biden bans new drilling in US coastal waters weeks before Trump handover.
‘He was prescient’: Jimmy Carter, the environment and the road not taken.
Climate crisis ‘wreaking havoc’ on Earth’s water cycle, report finds.
Ripe for the picking? Irish wine on the up – but ‘nobody will retire rich’.
‘It’s not just alerts, it’s a state of mind’: How a wildfire monitoring app became essential in the US west.
From Trump tariffs to AI: the big economic questions facing governments in 2025.
‘Ironic’: climate-driven sea level rise will overwhelm major oil ports, study shows.
Trump accused of attacking UK energy policies on behalf of fossil fuel industry.
‘A look into the future’: TV drama about Danish climate refugees divides opinion.
Is pistachio the new pumpkin spice? Why production of the nut is booming in California.
Weatherwatch: The need to wake up to sea level rise in the UK.
Don’t believe the Coalition’s ‘emissions are down’ spin. Australia has not delivered on climate policy.
Doubts over Coalition’s net zero target as report finds soil carbon emissions may increase as climate warms.
Revealed: Biden administration was not legally bound to auction gulf drilling rights.
‘2.4C is a death sentence’: Vanessa Nakate’s fight for the forgotten countries of the climate crisis.
The Guardian view on ash dieback: a tiny chink of hope.
John Midwinter obituary.
Sailing away: superyacht industry booms during Covid pandemic.
‘We faced so many cyclones’: how people in Bangladesh are rebuilding after climate catastrophe.
UK universities took £89m from oil firms in last four years.
‘Gushing oil and roaring fires’: 30 years on Kuwait is still scarred by catastrophic pollution.
The year in politics with the Guardian’s Canberra bureau.
Guardian and Observer charity appeal 2021: support the fight for climate justice.
Hold the beef: McDonald’s avoids the bold step it must take to cut emissions.
Help us support those on the frontline of the climate emergency.
Former NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian rules out running for federal seat of Warringah.
California tackles food waste with largest recycling program in US.
Tropical forests can partially regenerate in just 20 years without human interference.
Father and son arrested on suspicion of starting California wildfire.
Frosts, heatwaves and wildfires: the climate crisis is hitting the wine industry hard.
Concern over impact of Norfolk Boreas offshore windfarm on seabirds.
BP has ambitious plans to move beyond fossil fuels – but are they enough?
Climate change bills in Northern Ireland edge closer to completion.
NSW activists ‘delighted’ as high court rejects Kepco’s coalmine in Bylong Valley.
AGL brings forward closure date of two largest coal-fired power plants as market shifts to renewables.
Can you really carbon offset a power station? Sure – but it’s unimpressive.
Most Conservative MPs support net zero, says Tory environment group.
Germany appoints ex-Greenpeace chief as special climate envoy.
Nuclear fusion heat record a ‘huge step’ in quest for new energy source.
Campaigners fear net zero could be a casualty of Boris Johnson’s weakness.
US postal service under fire for plan to spend $11.3bn on gas-powered fleet.
Hidden depths: why do we know so little about what happens to a lake in winter?
When it comes to the ‘costs’ of going green, the Tories suddenly care about poverty.
Identify A-ha moments to trigger fast climate action, say UK scientists.
‘It’s all a bit cynical’: the politicians behind the Tory attack on net zero agenda.
Tories fighting net zero plans are dragging climate into new culture war, experts say.
World leaders descend on France for ocean summit as Macron puts spotlight on seas.
Cut meat and dairy output by a third to save climate, British farmers told.
Australia’s coolest year in a decade still warmer than average, Bureau of Meteorology reports.
‘Cutting through the greenwash’: Australian energy retailers ranked on climate action.
A rainforest cries: music, art, books and more to help you deal with climate anxiety.
Everything you need to know about Cop28 as the summit begins.
Time running out to make prosperous transition to net zero emissions, Australia warned.
The secret plan to ‘hook’ the developing world on oil.
Sydney, Brisbane and Perth face ‘increased risk of bushfire’ this summer.
Net zero by 2050 and interim target of 70% emissions reduction by 2035 passed by NSW parliament.
The Crunch: what Australia's love for SUVs means for emissions and safety.
Why loss and damage funds are key to climate justice for developing countries at Cop28.
Cop28 president denies on eve of summit he abused his position to sign oil deals.
Here’s a question Cop28 won’t address: why are billionaires blocking action to save the planet?
Carbon offsetting, Kyoto protocol and NDCs: a Cop28 jargonbuster.
Chris Bowen warns global heating will fuel political instability in annual climate statement.
‘Enough of endless delays’: will Cop28 force a course change for the world?
What is Cop28 and why does it matter?
Kids are rallying in the streets for justice like tiny juvenile firebrands! What is going on?
Most sponsors of Cop28 have not signed up to UN-backed net zero targets.
Deal to keep 1.5C hopes alive is within reach, says Cop28 president.
10 ways the climate crisis and nature loss are linked.
‘A biodiversity catastrophe’: how the world could look in 2050 – unless we act now.
History fades as rising sea levels slowly destroy Thailand’s temple murals.
The Guardian view on betting the planet: a big oil producer presiding over Cop28 is a risk.
Australians should be angry about another year of climate inaction. But don’t let your anger turn into despair.
What do the Los Angeles fires tell us about the coming water wars?
UK infrastructure isn’t climate-crisis ready.
‘Criminally reckless’: why LA’s urban sprawl made wildfires inevitable – and how it should rebuild.
California pulls diesel phase-out request to EPA ahead of Trump administration.
Climate ‘whiplash’ events increasing exponentially around world.
Clean energy pioneer’s lab destroyed in suspected arson attack in Liverpool.
‘The entire community is just gone’: inside the Los Angeles wildfires – Full Story podcast.
Major banks are abandoning their climate alliance en masse. So much for ‘woke capital’.
I’m a climate scientist and my house in LA burned down. My work has never been more real.
Escalating armed conflict is most urgent threat for world in 2025, say global leaders.
Farage and Truss attend UK launch of US climate denial group.
From the archive: ‘A deranged pyroscape’: how fires across the world have grown weirder.
‘The entire community is just gone’: inside the Los Angeles wildfires.
LA braces for more fire evacuations as experts warn of new ‘dangerous weather situation’.
Could Keir Starmer’s AI dream derail his own green energy promise?
How weather ‘whiplash’ set the stage for the LA fires.
Biden Trump-proofs $74bn in climate funding but $20bn remains vulnerable.
‘We are crying for rain’: Suriname’s villages go hungry as drought bites.
Nobel prize winners call for urgent ‘moonshot’ effort to avert global hunger catastrophe.
Deadliest year on record as Phoenix heat fatalities rise by 50%.
When two wheels are better than four: a buyer’s guide to ebikes.
What’s the hottest property on a boiling planet? Just ask a billionaire.
Tuvalu residency and security treaty: what is it and why is Australia doing it?
Strobe lights, AI, shotguns: can anything help Canada’s polar bears and humans coexist?
Australia to offer residency to Tuvalu citizens displaced by climate change.
More people not having children due to climate breakdown fears, finds research.
Newsroom edition: why we shouldn’t switch off the news – Full Story podcast.
After a record year of wildfires, will Canada ever be the same again?
The Westminster panto is in full swing: but there are real dangers waiting in the wings.
Small modular nuclear reactor that was hailed by Coalition as future cancelled due to rising costs.
Why is the Amazon rainforest drying up?.
Oil and gas ‘not the problem’ for climate, says UK’s net zero minister.
‘A treasure beneath our feet’: How the Dutch went down the toilet looking for heat.
Human-caused heating behind extreme droughts in Syria, Iraq and Iran, study finds.
‘Inestimable importance’: 500-year-old cache of pressed flowers reveals new secrets.
Extinction Rebellion’s future is far less radical than its past.
UK forests face catastrophic ecosystem collapse within 50 years, study says.
2023 on track to be the hottest year on record, say scientists.
Plastic waste ‘spiralling out of control’ across Africa, analysis shows.
Rishi Sunak ‘will rue his green group attacks come election time’.
Hawaii fires: rescuers comb through debris in Lahaina as death roll rises to 80.
Hawaii congresswoman says state underestimated lethality of wildfires.
It’s the ‘Swiss army knife of the sea’. But can kelp survive rising marine heat?
Hawaii: growing threat of ‘devastating’ fires as island landscape dries and warms.
Sunak’s anti-green drive tells us this: we’re heading for the stupidest general election yet.
Hawaii fires death toll rises to 67.
Global heating likely to hit world food supply before 1.5C, says UN expert.
When it comes to the climate crisis, no man is an island.
The climate crisis calls for individual accountability.
Fiddling while Europe burns.
Experts fear US carbon capture plan is ‘fig leaf’ to protect fossil fuel industry.
Why the Maui wildfires spread so devastatingly fast.
Hawaii: footage emerges of houses in Lahaina being burned to the ground.
Experts ‘rewild’ British Sign Language with new environmental terms.
Authors threaten boycott of Edinburgh book festival over sponsors’ fossil fuel links.
The desperate race to create a protection zone around the rapidly melting Arctic.
‘Venice of Detroit’: climate costs imperil historic neighborhood.
Greenland split over benefits of tourism as territory opens to the world.
Top UN court to begin hearings on landmark climate change case.
Could Tenbury Wells be the first UK town centre abandoned over climate change?
What is a southerly buster and how can the wind suddenly drop temperatures by 20C?
Wake up and smell the coffee: rising food prices show destabilising impact of climate crisis.
Land degradation expanding by 1m sq km a year, study shows.
It’s too late to halt the climate crisis.
People are angry about the floods – but turning to Reform endangers us all.
‘It brings back memories of Aberfan’: coal tip collapse in storms sparks revolt in Welsh valley.
Is it safe to have a child? Americans rethink family planning ahead of Trump’s return.
The big idea: on Remembrance Day for Lost Species, here’s why it matters.
The man who caught his catfish; actor Kaya Scodelario on Skins, scares and sex scenes; and Philippa Perry on coping with the climate crisis.
UK increases World Bank contribution, boosting climate finance prospects.
New powder that captures carbon could be ‘quantum leap’ for industry.
How climate policies reduce air pollution saving lives and money.
‘Climate-induced poisoning’: 350 elephants probably killed by toxic water.
Play tells of Kyoto’s last-minute climate deal – a story repeated in summits since.
Spain introduces paid climate leave after deadly floods.
The Cop29 agreement failed island states. Now the UN’s top court must act on climate harm.
‘Sleepwalking through extinction’: China urged to end delays to Cop15 summit.
Spain braces for heatwave of ‘extraordinary intensity’.
Australian Greens hope election focus on climate will bring their biggest representation yet.
‘Carbon bomb’ makers are putting all our lives at risk.
Weather forecasters shouldn’t apologise for the rain.
Lab-grown meat firms say post-Brexit UK could be at forefront.
Suicides indicate wave of ‘doomerism’ over escalating climate crisis.
French dijon mustard supply hit by climate and rising costs, say producers.
Plibersek says Albanese has a ‘tough job’ as polls tighten.
The banks collapsed in 2008 – and our food system is about to do the same.
Capturing the Climate crisis: the Evidence Project.
This election, are the teals ready to take on the fossil fuel lobby that’s captured the major parties?
Gas industry and Coalition reach for a get-out-of-catastrophe-free card in climate crisis Monopoly.
The Guardian view on the Australian federal election: say no to spin and inaction.
Australia’s climate data to UN questioned as study finds land clearing in Queensland underreported.
Australian women document climate crisis in visual petition.
Australia’s tropical rainforests have been dying faster for decades in ‘clear and stark climate warning’.
Crypto crash unlikely to reduce its climate impact, expert says.
There’s no chance of cutting bills while the private sector runs the UK energy market.
Climate crisis makes extreme Indian heatwaves 100 times more likely – study.
Climate crisis means quarter of European ski resorts face scarce snow.
Birds – and ornithologists – flock to huge rubbish dump in Spain.
Children’s voices must be heard on climate crisis, says UN rights body.
Labour’s David Lammy visits Brazil to build ‘climate justice’ partnership.
I only read about climate change now because I have to.
I have studied emperor penguins for 30 years. We may witness their demise in our lifetime.
What would happen to Earth if it were to cool, rather than heat, by 1.5C?
How to stay cool without air con – and help take some heat off the planet.
A new dawn rises in the Arctic: the Inuit plan to reclaim their sea.
‘I’m not the guilty one’: the water protector facing jail time for trying to stop a pipeline.
South-east Australia marine heatwave forecast to be literally off the scale.
Bare power lines and ‘obsolete’ poles were possible cause of Hawaii fires.
Two men accused of lighting wildfires in Greece are arrested.
After America’s summer of extreme weather, ‘next year may well be worse’.
In the battle to save the world’s forests, women are leading the resistance.
Climate change: it’s not all bad news.
The world is burning. Who can convince the comfortable classes of the radical sacrifices needed?
Scientific journal retracts article that claimed no evidence of climate crisis.
Indonesia’s tropical Eternity Glaciers could vanish within years, experts say.
‘Your generation got us in this mess’: children of big oil employees discuss the climate crisis with their parents.
‘Vague and weak’ policies mean Scotland could miss emission targets.
Antarctic visitors threaten world’s largest remaining wilderness.
Boris Johnson urged to set up net-zero initiative across government.
Labor reaches out to religious communities with faith and climate summit.
All coral reefs in western Indian Ocean ‘at high risk of collapse in next 50 years’.
Old UK oilwells could be turned into CO2 burial test sites.
Animals farmed: airport patrol pigs, male chicks and China’s meat demand.
SA premier advised to close border with New South Wales; Katherine lockdown extende.
Free tree for every Welsh household in climate initiative.
Labor appears to be living in either fear or hope over climate policy.
From pollutant to product: the companies making stuff from CO2.
California will name and categorise heatwaves – should Australia follow suit?
Why some of your favorite podcasts are filled with oil company ads.
Why climate-change gardening means breaking all the rules.
Chalk paint and police raids: why climate activists are under fire.
Labor’s climate plan can’t fix 12 years of broken politics – but it’s a floor to what’s possible.
Carbon-cutting app aims to help Londoners ease into net zero future.
Fashion must stick to climate pledges to prevent waste crisis, says UK economist.
‘No easy fix’: polar bear capital of the world turns to electric transporters to save the bears.
Trump’s EPA to prioritize AI, lobbyists and staff cuts in ‘mission to traumatize’.
Hottest January on record mystifies climate scientists.
Dog treat made from lab-grown meat on sale in UK as retailer claims a ‘world first’.
Urgent action needed to ensure UK food security, report warns.
On the edge: Massachusetts home at peril of tumbling into bay from erosion.
Doge staffers enter Noaa headquarters and incite reports of cuts and threats.
Minister promises to spend £250m to top up England’s flood defences.
Deaths of 30,000 fish off WA coast made more likely by climate change, research finds.
Climate change target of 2C is ‘dead’, says renowned climate scientist.
Rightwing MEPs threaten huge funding freeze for environmental NGOs.
Temperatures at north pole 20C above average and beyond ice melting point.
Scientists brace ‘for the worst’ as Trump purges climate mentions from websites.
US Senate confirms fracking CEO Chris Wright to be Trump’s energy secretary.
Australian nature: if our laws don’t radically change, environmental degradation will continue.
‘Organic duckweed’ danger at Heathrow.
Trump has brought much-needed attention to a site of great tragedy: the Gulf of Mexico.
Greenland ice sheet cracking more rapidly than ever, study shows.
Nuclear curious? Here’s what you need to know about the Coalition’s energy claims.
This firefighter survived the worst of black summer. His new exhibition hurls you right in.
Environmental groups in UK  ‘still very white – especially at the top’.
Deadly humid heatwaves to spread rapidly as climate warms – study.
‘A critical moment’: UN warns world will miss climate targets unless fossil fuels phased out.
What’s worse than Burning Man? A burning planet.
US climate scientist risks felony by chaining herself to pipeline drill.
Chasm between climate action and scientific reality laid bare in UN stocktake.
Scottish walkers up in arms over Edinburgh footpath shut for five years.
Shell signals retreat from carbon offsetting.
US Open semi-final interrupted as climate protester glues feet to floor in stands.
‘We’re not victims, we’re part of the solution’: the first Africa Climate Summit.
Australian Antarctic Division accused of hampering Senate investigation into research cuts.
Peter Dutton rejects Nationals push to overturn commitment to net zero.
Some fish species are shrinking, scientists say, probably due to global heating.
The Guardian view on electric vehicles: UK boom could run out of juice before it begins.
Don’t be fooled by rail ticket office promises.
‘A biblical catastrophe’: death toll rises to six as Storm Daniel lashes Greece .
Climate adaptation finance to Africa must increase tenfold, research shows.
Antarctica warming much faster than models predicted in ‘deeply concerning’ sign for sea levels.
'It's delicious': Ryanair boss hit with cream cake in climate protest.
G20: battle for influence as US seeks to rival China in the global south.
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary hit with cream pies by climate protesters.
Labor now has the chance to act with gusto on climate policy.
Liberals still in Canberra must find their moderate voice and assertively represent the centre.
HSBC suspends head of responsible investing who called climate warnings ‘shrill’.
How Albanese’s practical pivot on climate paved the way for a Greens surge.
The Guardian view on swallows and swifts: nature’s messengers.
Australia’s rightwing government weaponised climate change – now it has faced its reckoning.
With no A-listers, can Davos still play a part on the global stage?
New Zealand’s promised action on climate is nothing more than a tottering baby’s first steps.
US heatwave brings historically high temperatures to dozens of states.
Peter Kalmus: ‘As a species, we’re on autopilot, not making the right decisions’.
Teal independents punish Liberal moderates for inaction on climate crisis and integrity commission.
Temperatures in parts of Spain reach highest on record for May.
Scott Morrison softened his defiant language on climate change action amid UK trade deal.
India’s wheat farmers count cost of 40C heat that evokes ‘deserts of Rajasthan’.
More than $1bn of Coalition’s climate funding could go to fossil fuel projects, analysis finds.
Historic heatwave poised to hit dozens of US states this weekend.
Global heating is cutting sleep across the world, study finds.
Pitting bands against each other won’t help the music industry fight climate change.
HSBC pressured to sack banker who discredited climate crisis warnings.
Hard-right Tories push to delay environmental land management scheme.
Recovery of Great Barrier Reef stalls as scientists point to bleaching, disease and starfish attacks.
Firefighters battle blaze raging for fourth day in southern Portugal.
Wildfire burns thousands of hectares of land in southern Portugal.
Climate-heating methane released from dozens of Australian fossil fuel sites, environmental group claims.
Here’s what we know about Sunak now: where the anti-green extremists lead, he will follow.
‘Virtually certain’ extreme Antarctic events will get worse without drastic action, scientists warn.
California judge pauses sweeping of homeless encampments amid heatwave.
The climate cost of scouts’ ill-judged South Korea jamboree.
Can’t stand the heat: how can UK workplaces adapt to the climate crisis?
Jess Search obituary.
Is the climate crisis finally catching up with Antarctica? Finding the answer has never been more pressing.
I feel bad about enjoying the rain – but this sodden summer brings back such wonderful memories.
Racism at heart of US failure to tackle deadly heatwaves, expert warns.
Winter heatwave in Andes is sign of things to come, scientists warn.
Fire Weather by John Vaillant review – apocalypse in Alberta.
‘Despair is a luxury we can’t afford’: David Suzuki on fighting for action on the climate crisis.
UK experts fear losing access to ice age mammoths Cotswolds site to UAE.
‘Metal box heated from the inside’: food truck workers’ battle against heat.
UK offshore wind at ‘tipping point’ as funding crisis threatens industry.
Earth cries! We are the gods that must step up to the biggest crisis in history.
Climate crisis ‘insufficient’ to halt oil and gas exploration, says New Zealand government.
U-turn as Manchin agrees deal with Democrats on major tax and climate bill.
James Lovelock obituary.
James Lovelock talks about his Gaia hypothesis and climate change in 2014 interview.
James Lovelock, creator of Gaia hypothesis, dies on 103rd birthday.
Leaked: US power companies secretly spending millions to protect profits and fight clean energy.
Looking for someone to blame for the extreme heat? Try Wall Street.
BBC criticised over climate question in Tory leadership debate.
‘Like a public shaming’: a night with the eco-activists deflating SUV tires.
Kew Gardens secures a multimillion-pound climate change investment.
Flash floods kill over 300 in Pakistan as more monsoon rain is forecast.
Westpac’s climate targets blasted by activists despite tougher stance on fossil fuels.
There is an alternative to disruptive climate protest.
New words in French dictionaries show ‘great suppleness’ of language.
‘Parks are wild by nature’: Yosemite visitors undeterred by raging forest fires.
Anthony Albanese rules out banning fossil fuel projects, citing risk to Australian economy.
We’re occupying schools across the world to protest climate inaction.
Zoe Daniel and Sally Sitou call for climate action in first speeches to parliament.
Blackouts in China as heatwave pushes electricity usage to record levels.
‘A moral imperative’: how southern ministers are trying to change minds about the climate crisis.
Australia’s renewable energy goals can’t come at the cost of biodiversity – we need a strategic approach.
The Guardian view on Rishi Sunak: he’s not serious about meeting green targets.
‘Brutal’ Arctic blast expected to bring frigid temperatures to North America.
Stick to £28bn green spending plan, ex-Tory Chris Skidmore urges Labour.
Australia urged to name heatwaves to combat dangers of extreme temperatures.
Dutch Caribbean islanders sue Netherlands over climate change.
Has London’s Ulez become a magnet for conspiracy theories?.
‘Astounding’ ocean temperatures in 2023 intensified extreme weather, data shows.
Swathes of Melbourne could face flooding from rising sea levels, new long-term modelling suggests.
World’s renewable energy capacity grew at record pace in 2023.
Tree that lives underground among newly named plant species.
US oil lobby launches eight-figure ad blitz amid record fossil fuel extraction.
Carbon pollution down nearly 2% in US – but not enough to meet Biden’s goal.
Bhutan Mountain Man: video diaries from a lone glaciologist.
Bhutan Mountain Man: video diaries from a lone glaciologist.
‘We can’t pretend the ecological crisis is separate’: the economist thinking differently about climate breakdown.
2023 smashes record for world’s hottest year by huge margin.
The climate costs of war and militaries can no longer be ignored.
Emissions from Israel’s war in Gaza have ‘immense’ effect on climate catastrophe.
War gave us the Red Cross. Now climate disaster means we need a Green Cross too.
Australia at odds with neighbouring nations on new coal and gas projects at Pacific Islands Forum.
Britons dispose of nearly 100bn pieces of plastic packaging a year, survey finds.
Texans urged to save energy as extreme heatwave strains power grid.
Australia a ‘trusted global partner’ on climate again, Albanese to tell energy forum.
Small minority of UK parliamentarians attend emergency climate briefing.
Why is it so hot in the UK and elsewhere in Europe and what are the dangers?
Campaigners take legal action over failings of England’s food strategy.
Humans need to value nature as well as profits to survive, UN report finds.
Labor faces decisions on approval of up to 27 coal developments including greenfield mines.
Green Tories fear next party leader could ditch net zero strategy.
Bangladesh is paying a high price for developed world’s carbon emissions.
Quiet flows the Po: the life and slow death of Italy’s longest river.
‘Like going back 1,000 years’: ancient Māori bird hunt faces uncertain future.
Art, science and a reef made of sugar: an exploration of climate change.
Germany to reactivate coal power plants as Russia curbs gas flow.
California wildfire forces partial closure of Yosemite national park.
We’ve overexploited the planet, now we need to change if we’re to survive.
Risk of ‘conflict and strife’ in Europe over energy crisis, EU deputy warns.
Ranked: how green are the Tory leadership candidates?
Weather tracker: La Niña and climate crisis behind recent Australia floods.
In the middle of cyclone preparation I found a baby bird – one tiny, wild life amid the wind and rain.
‘Global weirding’: climate whiplash hitting world’s biggest cities, study reveals.
Economic growth for its own sake is ruining Britain.
As Trump attacks US science agencies, ex-Tropical Cyclone Alfred ushers in a fresh wave of climate denial in Australia.
Argentina flooding: 16 killed as two girls swept away by rising waters.
All the executive orders Trump has signed so far.
What the world needs now is more fossil fuels, says Trump’s energy secretary.
US will be ‘central’ to climate fight even without Trump, says Cop30 president.
Ed Miliband on net zero in the age of Trump – Politics Weekly Westminster.
To win the bush, Australian politics needs to embrace its ‘curves’.
The left needs its own version of techno-optimism.
Trump’s USAid cuts will have huge impact on global climate finance, data shows.
Postcode electricity pricing is a minefield for Ed Miliband.
Tree loss from hurricane leaves Asheville vulnerable to new climate shocks.
Valerie drove her bright red Suzuki into the eye of Alfred. Now she’s heading home to the northern rivers.
How does ex-Tropical Cyclone Alfred compare to past storms?
‘A new phase’: why climate activists are turning to sabotage instead of protest.
Limited sleep, damp houses – and waiting for more wild weather: on the ground preparing for Alfred.
US exits fund that compensates poorer countries for global heating.
Switzerland told it must do better on climate after older women’s ECHR win.
Carbon emissions of richest 1% increase hunger, poverty and deaths, says Oxfam.
Corporations using ‘ineffectual’ carbon offsets are slowing path to ‘real zero’, more than 60 climate scientists say.
Two hurricanes stir up voter backlash to Florida Republicans’ climate denialism.
If fossil fuel dependency is a global addiction, climate activists are prophets trying to save us from our stupor.
Campaigners call for steeper cuts to UK greenhouse gas emissions.
‘You don’t want to waste time on climate change’: TV weather’s big problem with the environmental crisis.
‘They regress’: kids struggle without school and structure after Helene.
Man who lost home to coastal erosion loses court case against UK government.
‘We have emotions too’: Climate scientists respond to attacks on objectivity.
Sliver of cool surface water 2mm deep helps oceans absorb CO2, say scientists.
‘Pole of Cold’: life in the coldest inhabited village on Earth – photo essay.
Weatherwatch: Will new oilfields become stranded assets?
Nevada lithium mine approved despite possible harm to endangered wildflower.
Would abandoning false hope help us to tackle the climate crisis?
King Charles drinks narcotic kava at ceremony in Samoa.
‘Crunch time for real’: UN says time for climate delays has run out.
US power grid added battery equivalent of 20 nuclear reactors in past four years.
Weatherwatch: On the brink of overshooting the 1.5C climate target.
Turning the tables on big carbon emitters.
California lake so green with algae it’s visible from space, says Nasa.
‘Game-changing’: Vermont becomes first state to require big oil to pay for climate damages.
The power to help the planet is at your (green) fingertips.
Pronatalists are conveniently ignoring Earth’s real problems.
Texas sees snowploughs in May as ‘DVD-sized’ hailstones strike state.
Activists hold three-day protest in EU election run-up as green agenda slips.
India’s ‘sinking island’ looks to election for survival.
No need for countries to issue new oil, gas or coal licences, study finds.
‘Unliveable’: Delhi’s residents struggle to cope in record-breaking heat.
‘Termination shock’: cut in ship pollution sparked global heating spurt.
Rightwing NZ government accused of ‘war on nature’ as it takes axe to climate policies.
The ugly truth behind ChatGPT: AI is guzzling resources at planet-eating rates.
Heatwaves increase risk of early births and poorer health in babies, study finds.
Severe thunderstorms pummel Texas causing widespread power outages.
Widening the Lens: using photography to re-examine our environment.
Increasing use of renewable energy in US yields billions of dollars of benefits.
Peer who praised rising temperatures appointed to climate crisis committee.
Why 2024 will be a crucial year for climate litigation.
UK needs ambitious green plan to keep up with allies, says Labour frontbencher.
Conservative hostility to net zero proves the party has turned its back on British capitalism.
Labour MP stirred by disappearing Antarctic ice and her father’s legacy.
Australia not prepared for how Antarctic ice changes will hit economy, scientist warns.
Public will be at risk if Labour drops £28bn green plan, warns fire union chief.
Globalisation is not dead, but it is fading: ‘glocalisation’ is becoming the new mantra.
Rishi Sunak facing renewed pressure over plans to ‘max out’ North Sea oil.
Can the super-rich tell us how to save the planet? Gen Z certainly think so.
Arctic zombie viruses in Siberia could spark terrifying new pandemic, scientists warn.
Heatwave scorches states from east to west as temperatures soar across Australia.
Dew point and sticky sweat: why humidity is so uncomfortable.
Can the power of artificial intelligence be harnessed to help predict Australia’s weather?
UK ‘used to be a leader on climate’, lament European lawmakers.
Brexit divergence from EU destroying UK’s vital environmental protections.
The UK environmental protections dropped since Brexit.
When my dad and brother died, I denied my grief the way we deny the climate crisis. But it didn’t go away.
Women added to Cop29 climate summit committee after backlash.
Labor must amend trade agreements that allow foreign companies to sue the government over energy and climate policies.
Trillions of dollars at risk because central banks’ climate models not up to scratch.
Switzerland’s melting glaciers reveal human remains and plane wreckage.
Drone footage reveals impact of climate crisis on Europe's rivers.
Congress is about to pass a historic climate bill. So why are oil companies pleased?
Flood inquiry finds serious failures by agencies and calls for Resilience NSW to be scrapped.
Landmark US climate bill will do more harm than good, groups say.
Reinstate climate change minister role, says green Tory Chris Skidmore.
From the archive: Why are climate and conservation scientists taking to the streets?.
UK health agency issues new heat alert warning for England.
Biden tours flood-ravaged Kentucky as White House highlights climate crisis.
White House warns of ‘intensifying impacts of climate change’ as Biden tours flood-hit Kentucky.
Climate impacts have worsened vast range of human diseases.
Democrats celebrate as climate bill moves to House – and critics weigh in.
Europe’s worst ever drought: in pictures.
‘The new normal’: how Europe is being hit by a climate-driven drought crisis.
Biden’s landmark climate and spending bill – what’s in it, and what got cut?
The most awe-inspiring and exuberant birds are facing extinction first – let’s stop nature becoming boring.
Weather tracker: no relief as heatwaves continue in parts of Europe and China.
Sizewell C nuclear plant approval faces legal challenge.
US climate research agency braces for ‘efficiency’ cuts: ‘They will gut the work’.
The US is destroying climate progress. Here’s a strategy to win over the right.
‘Human activity on a massive scale’: a photo exhibition tackles the climate crisis.
‘The forests are going up in flames – so is the rule of law’: Argentina’s climate of fear.
Coalition spokesninnies have lashed out at the nice man at the Climate Change Authority.
Nauru sells citizenship to help fund relocations as sea levels rise.
UK urged to act now on net zero – and skip two kebabs’ worth of meat a week.
What would reaching net zero mean for life in 2040s Britain?
Ex-US security officials urge funding for science research to keep up with China.
US officials have been absent from global climate forums during Trump 2.0.
US anti-pipeline activists say charges against them ‘meant to intimidate’.
‘I know their names, what they eat’: tracking polar bears on Svalbard’s shifting icescapes.
How scientists capture a polar bear.
Flood warnings issued in parts of UK after weekend of rain and wind.
German election shows how far green wave has receded in Europe.
Forest fires push up greenhouse gas emissions from war in Ukraine.
Britain’s net zero economy is booming, CBI says.
Climate researchers should play the Trump card.
‘An ode to Altadena’: LA arts community bands together to support fire-ravaged neighborhood.
Scotland ‘likely to miss net zero climate target by up to 20m tonnes’.
‘I can’t stop now’: Uganda’s anti-LGBTQ+ law forces climate activist into exile.
‘I can’t stop now’: Uganda’s anti-LGBTQ+ law forces climate activist into exile.
Butterflywatch: Gatekeepers spread north to take up residence in Scotland.
Mount Fuji snowless for longest time on record after sweltering Japan summer.
Record levels of heat-related deaths in 2023 due to climate crisis, report finds.
Rescues as torrential rain brings flash flooding to Spain.
Helping scientists cope in a climate of fear.
I used to conserve artworks. Now I am in prison for taking climate action.
Climate crisis caused half of European heat deaths in 2022, says study.
NSW police fight to stop Newcastle port ‘protestival’ in second court challenge to protests in a month.
Apparently fake social media accounts boost Azerbaijan before Cop29.
Polar bears are back in Britain. But should they really be living here?
Let’s be clear, Peter Dutton’s energy plan is more focused on coal and gas than it is on nuclear power.
Gerry Foley obituary.
Whitehaven Coal faces rare shareholder action over mining plans and CEO’s $7m bonus.
Five ways a Trump presidency would be disastrous for the climate.
Planet-heating pollutants in atmosphere hit record levels in 2023.
Miscarriages due to climate crisis a ‘blind spot’ in action plans – report.
Santos sued by its own shareholder in world-first greenwashing case.
Scientists have discovered that Earth’s carbon sinks are not really carbon sinking at the moment.
The Guardian view on GB Energy: Labour’s big idea could be a great one for the planet.
‘It looked like we were at sea’: UK River and Rowing Museum faces up to climate threat.
Sunak stands with net zero and climate conspiracy group at farming protest.
‘Fruit bowls are out’: the best ways to store fresh produce, according to experts.
Greener snowmaking is helping ski resorts tackle climate change.
Colombia vows to put nature at the heart of global environmental negotiations.
Newsroom edition: the political resistance to clean energy – Full Story podcast.
Natural disasters could cost NSW $9bn a year by 2060, analysis finds.
Switzerland calls on UN to explore possibility of solar geoengineering.
UK quits treaty that lets fossil fuel firms sue governments over climate policies.
Herd of puppets to trek 20,000km to highlight urgency of climate crisis.
Growth in CO2 emissions leaves China likely to miss climate targets.
Tell us: have you created a DIY climate solution in your US community?
Wooden buttons will only go so far in saving the planet.
Removing UK climate protesters’ defence ‘could erode right to trial by jury’.
University of Florida student senate passes ‘green new deal’.
Some vehicles on Australian roads use 20% more fuel than claimed – which models are the worst?
A penny per email could curb our enormous data use.
In Wales, struggling farmers grapple with new sustainability policies.
Canadian village destroyed by wildfire in 2021 evacuated due to wildfire.
‘A modern-day villain’: Joe Manchin condemned for killing US climate action.
Thousands evacuated as heat causes wildfires in Europe and north Africa.
Tory hopefuls Sunak, Mordaunt, Truss and Tugendhat commit to net zero.
TV to the rescue! The small screen’s battle to save the planet.
England heatwave: what is a level 4 national emergency?
‘Deeply worrying’: fears for UK’s net zero goal under new Tory leader.
UN urged to move Cop27 from Egypt over ‘LGBTQ+ torture’.
Met Office issues first ever red warning for extreme heat in England.
PM says he ‘wants to keep economy open’.
‘Change is possible’: meet the Gen-Zers who embrace climate optimism.
Big Butterfly Count in UK begins with eyes on declining numbers.
Pacific leaders welcome Australia’s ‘renewed commitment’ to climate change.
Liberal MP Bridget Archer open to crossing floor to vote for government’s emissions target bill.
Shanghai declares third rare extreme heat warning of summer.
Way to go: why Germany’s €9 travel pass is a big step in the right direction.
Democratic voters say Biden could be doing a lot more for the climate crisis.
Chris Bowen shares draft climate bill as independents and Greens turn up heat for more ambitious action.
Extreme heat around the world in videos, photos and graphics.
Extreme heatwaves are here to stay in the UK. It’s time for us to adapt.
Queensland climate protester fined $5,000 under laws last used during Bjelke-Petersen era.
China’s emissions of two potent greenhouse gases rise 78% in decade.
Climate crisis is making days longer, study finds.
Millions face extreme temperatures as heat dome covers US midwest and east.
Australia’s big banks lent $3.6bn to fossil fuel expansion projects in 2023, report shows.
‘I couldn’t get him to move’: dog owners struggle through US heatwave.
Ed Miliband to lead UK negotiations at Cop29 climate summit.
Climate plans of Australian companies would be exempt from private litigation for three years under proposal.
Record-breaking heatwave shifts east as millions of Americans under heat alert.
‘Beat the heat’: Madrid looks to cool off with culture amid climate crisis.
‘Goldmine’ collection of wheat from 100 years ago may help feed the world, scientists say.
David Lammy must lead the way on access to clean water.
Climate activists have received months-long sentences. Are tougher laws eroding Australians’ right to protest?
Labour’s ‘rooftop revolution’ to deliver solar power to millions of UK homes.
Artist punches holes in UN climate report six hours a day for Dutch installation.
After Hurricane Beryl’s destruction, climate scientists fear for what’s next.
London’s Science Museum forced to cut ties with oil giant – and faces pressure over other sponsors.
Where are all the butterflies this summer? Their absence is telling us something important.
Climate crisis has impact on insects’ colours and sex lives, study finds.
The story of a heat death: David went to work in his new job on a French building site. By the end of the day he was dead.
Climate crisis driving exponential rise in most extreme wildfires.
Matt Kean criticised by Coalition MPs after Labor appoints him new chair of Climate Change Authority.
Labor and Greens strike anti-vaping deal.
Who is Matt Kean and what is the Climate Change Authority?
‘Time is life’: the Delhi clinic treating the city’s heat stroke victims.
Climate protesters storm 18th hole during final day of Travelers Championship.
Only 60% of Australians accept climate disruption is human-caused, global poll finds.
US official warns against dropping 2030 climate targets after Dutton refuses to commit to 43% emissions cut.
'More birds, more trees': thousands march for nature in London.
Thousands march in London to urge leaders to tackle wildlife crisis.
‘Multiple disasters all in one day’: New Mexico’s brutal week of fire and flood.
In the race for new energy strategies, why does home insulation always lag behind?
Our incredible win could change the future of oil and gas in the UK.
Key takeaways from the Bonn climate conference.
Climate engineering off US coast could increase heatwaves in Europe, study finds.
Climate activists bemoan scant progress on finance as Cop29 looms.
Restore Nature Now: thousands to march in London calling for urgent action.
I was a Tory minister – but I think we need a Labour government.
More than 1,000 hajj pilgrims die amid temperatures approaching 52C in Mecca.
Break your silence on the climate emergency.
‘It destroyed 20 years of memories’: Yorkshire family devastated by heatwave fire.
Berating climate deniers isn’t enough – disruptive protest now seems the only way forward.
How the plastic industry turned the pandemic to its advantage.
Tory death-priests have our lives in their hands.
UK restaurants plan more ‘heatwave menus’ of salads and cold meat.
‘You can’t take risks’: Portugal’s lonely lookouts stand guard against wildfires.
Letters: party politics won’t solve the climate crisis.
Low winds stopped what might have been new ‘great fire of London’, says expert.
These soaring temperatures have given Britain a taste of the dystopia to come.
Melting ‘snowflakes’? How climate change became a new front in the right’s culture war.
Dip in UK woodland’s ability to capture CO2 as felled trees not replaced.
Country diary: In the steaming hot woods, I realise we’re not the ones in charge here.
Grassroots push to include climate change in Labor’s revamp of national conservation laws.
Fifty-year extension for Australia’s biggest CO2 emitter attracts record number of appeals.
The best way to Dutton-proof climate legislation is to get it into parliament and get it passed.
Sexism, the Canberra bubble and climate: the battlegrounds for Zoe Daniel.
Belittling Labor’s 43% target is ‘crazy’: Felicity Wade on climate action.
Climate activists in Italy glue themselves to Botticelli painting.
‘Super scorchio!’: heat brings out new face of climate denial in UK press.
Weatherwatch: arrival of bee-eaters is a worrying sign of climate crisis.
Ignoring warnings of Europe’s extreme heatwave locks Australia into a worst-case scenario.
Traditional British garden under threat from extreme heat, says RHS.
Coup, Covid, climate: the triple threat chasing citizens from Myanmar’s rice bowl.
Leading environment group says Labor must include ratchet mechanism in climate change bill.
‘The world is counting on us’: Biden vows to tackle climate ‘emergency’.
Biden unveils extreme heat plan – but doesn’t declare climate emergency.
UK must learn to live with extreme weather, says cabinet minister.
Australia’s ecosystems are on the verge of collapsing. Can the government change this?
‘This doesn’t happen in Wennington’: residents and fire services reel after homes lost in blazes across England.
Edwardian morals, Thatcher and bad design – why Britain’s homes are so hot.
Britain’s rail services severely disrupted as heatwave damage is repaired.
Greens want to ‘improve and pass’ Labor’s climate bill but remain critical of 43% target.
Sunak accused of ‘economic illiteracy’ over pledge to block onshore windfarms.
Indonesian islanders sue cement producer for climate damages.
Alarm as fastest growing US cities risk becoming unlivable from climate crisis.
Heatwave led to London firefighters’ busiest day since second world war.
Gather round kids, let me tell you who’s REALLY responsible for the climate wars.
‘In 10 years, we might not have forests’: DRC struggles to halt charcoal trade – a photo essay.
Huge rise in building on prime farmland in England stokes food security fears.
UK accused of ‘moving goalposts’ on climate finance commitments.
‘A Trojan horse of legitimacy’: Shell launches a ‘climate tech’ startup advertising jobs in oil and gas.
Farmers stage mass protest outside Welsh parliament over climate policies.
European nations must end repression of peaceful climate protest, says UN expert.
Vanishing ice and snow: record warm winter wreaks havoc across US midwest.
Jim Chalmers to push for incentives for sustainable mining amid concerns over Australian nickel.
Demagogues imperilling global fight against climate breakdown, says Kerry.
Cash-strapped London council starts crowdfunding drive to pay for green upgrades.
Why Bangladesh is running out of options in the face of extreme weather.
Ministers could use loophole to water down carbon reduction commitments.
‘Quite radical’: the feeling of exhaustion is key to tackling climate change, says author.
‘People put a lot of hope on me’: Estonia’s youngest MP already making waves.
London is most exposed city in world to air pollution from aviation, study finds.
Australian voters are increasingly driven by issues rather than party loyalty – and that’s bad news for the old political order.
Pumped up: will a Dutch startup’s plan to restore Arctic sea-ice work?
We are taking a devastating risk with the green energy sector – one that might cost us our future.
UK’s net zero economy grew 9% in 2023, report finds.
Why insurance premiums are squeezing Australians and fuelling inflation.
Do electric cars have an air pollution problem?
Public transport workers join climate activists for week of strikes across Germany.
Who are the wealthy climate sceptics funding rightwing UK politics?
News and tech media mostly quiet after UN chief calls for ban on ads for oil and gas.
Commonwealth health ministries under pressure amid rise in climate-related illnesses.
Brutal heatwave cooks US south-west, an early sign of sizzling summer ahead.
Voters must demand that all candidates and parties commit to radical action on the climate crisis.
More intense, frequent tropical cyclones may devastate seabird colonies – study.
Tornadoes strike Detroit and east coast as heatwave blankets US south-west.
Nine independent MPs and Greens back UN call for Australia to ban fossil fuel advertising.
How Shetland data is helping to gauge El Niño’s effect on thunderstorms.
Secretive court system has awarded over $100bn public money to corporations, finds new analysis.
The things that you’re liable to read in the IPCC bible ain’t necessarily so, Chris Uhlmann says. It’s a bold claim.
Phoenix turns to ice-filled body bags to treat heatstroke as US south-west bakes.
Fossil fuel firms are 'godfathers of climate chaos', says UN chief.
‘Godfathers of climate chaos’: UN chief urges global fossil-fuel advertising ban.
The hidden story behind India’s remarkable election results: lethal heat.
Nearly half of journalists covering climate crisis globally received threats for their work.
The end of the great northern forests? The tiny tree-killing beetle wreaking havoc on our ancient giants.
Oceans face ‘triple threat’ of extreme heat, oxygen loss and acidification.
The Day After Tomorrow at 20: a strangely prescient ecological warning.
As global heating cuts Australia’s snowfall ski season may go downhill, report warns.
Alberta premier fights tears over Canada wildfires despite climate crisis denial.
Northern Scotland’s Flow Country becomes world heritage site.
Ed Miliband: people must be persuaded of need for pylons near homes.
Wildlife enthusiasts called on to help record dolphins and whales on UK coast.
Climate hero or villain? Fossil fuel frenzy challenges Norway’s green image.
Goodness me cheer up! Here are some things Guardian readers think are getting better.
Life at 115F: a sweltering summer pushes Las Vegas to the brink.
Kamala Harris memes are all over the internet. Will tweets and TikToks turn into votes?
Canada is proposing to lead on climate – but it’s doubling down on oil.
Brazilian rancher ordered to pay $50m for damage to Amazon.
Water temperatures near UK last year were hottest on record, say scientists.
‘Capable’ Harris and Biden’s legacy: key takeaways from the president’s address.
The real reason why Australia’s birthrate is falling.
Tree bark plays vital role in removing methane from atmosphere, study finds.
It’s easy to blame petrostates – but self-proclaimed ‘climate leaders’ like the US and UK are driving the crisis.
‘Inexcusable’: should climate hypocrites get the petrostates label?
Extreme wealth has a deadening effect on the super-rich – and that threatens us all.
Sunday was world’s hottest ever recorded day, data suggests.
Covid inquiry report proves that lessons have not been learned.
UK government faces claim over alleged failure to protect people in climate crisis.
Oregon county sues major gas provider for allegedly sowing climate doubt.
Earth’s ‘vital signs’ show humanity’s future in balance, say climate experts.
Deforestation ‘roaring back’ despite 140-country vow to end destruction.
Chris Boardman urges Premier League clubs to step up work on climate crisis.
Large French Alpine ski resort to close in face of shrinking snow season.
Climate warning as world’s rivers dry up at fastest rate for 30 years.
Tropical Storm Milton expected to wallop Florida days after Helene.
The Battle for Laikipia review – clash over Kenyan land is essential viewing.
‘We look after our neighbors’: how mutual-aid groups are filling the gaps after Hurricane Helene.
Harsh terrain, extreme fatigue. Life as a wildland firefighter in a heatwave: ‘It’s not normal for humans’.
Flash floods and landslides hit parts of Bosnia, killing at least 16.
‘VCs need their money back’: why sustainable startups struggle to fix our broken food system.
What is carbon capture, usage and storage?
Chris Packham urges protesters to stop blocking roads as he takes climate role.
Hurricane Helene is a humanitarian crisis – and a climate disaster.
Antarctica is ‘greening’ at dramatic rate as climate heats.
Politicians flying less or cutting out meat is ‘missing link’ in climate action.
Today, with our £22bn pledge for carbon capture, Labour’s green revolution for Britain begins.
Climate protest heroes are prisoners of conscience.
Some of Australia’s strategically important coral islands at great risk of vanishing, study finds.
Cop28 leaves the highway to climate hell wide open.
The heat is on – but who are the good guys on climate?
Steven Miles announces ambitious emissions reduction plan in first speech as Queensland premier.
Cop28 president says his firm will keep investing in oil.
‘The future is renewable’: How a huge gamble sealed Cop28 deal.
Conservation groups hail Cop28 plans to protect nature.
Flying hurts the planet but it’s vital for island tourism. Is there a greener way?
Short hops and economy class: five expert tips on how to reduce your emissions on holiday.
Are you doing laundry all wrong? An expert guide to caring for your clothes.
Failure of Cop28 on fossil fuel phase-out is ‘devastating’, say scientists.
‘We can’t afford to wait’: a Cornish town faces climate threat head on.
Steven Miles to set more ambitious emissions reduction targets on day one as Queensland premier.
Mascara, smoothies, T-shirts: I spent a day (and $500) on seaweed products.
Call me all the names you want – I won’t stop telling the truth about livestock farming.
Cop28’s winners and losers: from fossil fuel firms to future generations.
Cop28 failed to halt fossil fuels’ deadly expansion plans – so what now?
Chris Bowen calls on News Corp to sack Andrew Bolt for column saying Australians sick of ‘kowtowing to the primitive’.
Cop28 agreement is progress – but there is still plenty of wriggle room for any country, including Australia.
‘It’s a deal with the devil’: outrage in Appalachia over Manchin’s ‘vile’ pipeline plan.
How US government diet guidelines ignore the climate crisis.
Third of staff laid off at major New Zealand ski field as warm winter leaves slopes barren.
Northern Australia could have dangerously high heat most days of the year by 2100, study finds.
Half of year will be ‘dangerously hot’ in tropics by 2100, research shows.
Google accused of airbrushing carbon emissions in flight search results.
‘Grandmothers are our weather app’: new maps and local knowledge power Chad’s climate fightback.
How much longer can we tolerate this price-gouging racket of an energy sector?
Just Stop Oil protesters block service stations on M25 in second day of action.
Insects could give meaty taste to food – and help environment – scientists find.
‘It stinks’: Windermere plagued by blue-green algae as ‘toxic as cobra venom’.
UK and US banks among biggest backers of Russian ‘carbon bombs’, data shows.
RBA urges business to act now on climate threats or face potential legal action.
Jetal Agnihotri, swept away by flash floods at Zion national park, found dead.
Flash floods wreak havoc in US south-west – but are no salve for drought.
Britain must wake up before this war reaches our shores.
Epaulette sharks able to walk on land evolving to better survive climate crisis.
England’s housing strategy would blow entire carbon budget, says study.
Whether you’re a climate ‘doomer’ or ‘appeaser’, it’s best to prepare for the worst.
New Zealand’s flood-prone areas not ready to cope with climate crisis, Ardern says.
The environment was meant to be ‘back on the priority list’ under Labor. Instead we’ve seen a familiar story.
Submerged cemeteries and collapsed bridges in drone footage of Europe floods.
Climate scientists troubled by damage from floods ravaging central Europe.
How JD Vance’s home town has won millions in climate investment that he calls a ‘green scam’.
Did you know climate change made the entire Earth wobble for nine days! What?
UK to appoint nature envoy for first time.
A carbon tax to clip the wings of frequent flyers.
‘There’s something in the air’: UK airport expansion gears up for takeoff.
Key flood defences in disrepair across England as wet autumn looms, data reveals.
Race is on to produce a super-coral to survive world’s warming seas.
Mother of man accused in California wildfire says ‘he did not light that fire’.
Is the Beetaloo gas basin going to damage our water resources? Plibersek has asked experts to find out.
The Hague becomes world’s first city to pass law banning fossil fuel-related ads.
High court blocks Cumbria plan for UK’s first new deep coalmine in 30 years.
Extreme heat due to climate crisis puts people at greater risk of kidney disease.
England’s national parks overseen by ‘bloated’, mostly white male boards.
Technology helping solar farms counter growing hailstone threat.
Residents cleaning up after Hurricane Francine hits Louisiana coast.
Los Angeles hit by double whammy of wildfires and earthquake.
Louisiana residents breathe a sigh of relief as Hurricane Francine recedes.
‘Every household needs to work out a system for their fridge’: how to throw out less food.
Australian Alps face world’s largest loss of snow by end of century, research shows.
Effects of geoengineering must be urgently investigated, experts say.
The Big Apple gets a tiny forest: 1,000 native plants coming to New York.
Shell waters down emissions cut pledge despite crucial climate decade.
UK government accused of trying to ‘stoke culture war on climate issues’.
US energy industry gas leaks are triple the official figures, study finds.
Seven times size of Manhattan: the African tree-planting project making a difference.
Texas wildfire puts spotlight on cattle ranchers and climate extremes: ‘so badly burned they can’t be saved’.
Australia faces a hot autumn with Sydney sea temperatures warm enough for a tropical cyclone.
Fossil fuel firms must plug methane leaks to meet climate targets, warns watchdog.
UK plans to adapt to climate crisis ‘fall far short’ of what is required.
How to Blow Up a Pipeline: an eco-thriller Australia urgently needs.
Swedish police forcibly remove Greta Thunberg from parliament entrance.
Greta Thunberg dragged by police from climate protest outside Swedish parliament.
Australian sport runs financial and legal risks due to climate inaction, new report warns.
Tornadoes, shrinking ice and early syrup: how hottest winter hit the US.
No big North Sea fossil fuel country has plan to stop drilling in time for 1.5C goal.
Newly elected leaders to be held to same climate obligations, says Cop29 chief.
On the Great Barrier Reef and in denial: some would rather get crabby than face the facts.
Climate crisis helped drive payouts to seven-year high, say insurers.
Australian fossil fuel exports ranked second only to Russia for climate damage with ‘no plan’ for reduction.
Startling genome discovery in butterfly project reveals impact of climate change in Europe.
July was California’s hottest month in history.
Ozi: Voice of the Forest review – simian version of Greta Thunberg takes on evil corporation.
Pretty pylons can add character to England’s industrial landscape.
Excess memes and ‘reply all’ emails are bad for climate, researcher warns.
Weather Girl review – apocalyptic comedy gives chilling forecast for a burning planet.
‘Every building sits on a thermal asset’: how networked geothermal power could change cities.
Biomass power station produced four times emissions of UK coal plant, says report.
July ends 13-month streak of global heat records, but experts warn against relief.
The Guardian view on wind energy and the UK: Labour plays catch-up.
Wildfires in Brazil’s Pantanal wetland fuelled ‘by climate disruption’.
‘It shouldn’t be a bucket list place’: these people went to Antarctica. They hope you don’t.
‘Massive disinformation campaign’ is slowing global transition to green energy.
For Maui wildfire survivors who moved to Las Vegas, another climate disaster awaits: extreme heat.
‘It’s devastating’: summer in Canada’s Arctic region brings severe heatwaves.
What’s 2024’s most popular sport?
Repeating climate denial claims makes them seem more credible, Australian-led study finds.
Jacinda Ardern says one-in-100 year weather events becoming more frequent.
Tory leadership candidates failing on net zero policies, says thinktank.
The Guardian view on Earth-friendly diets: cooking animals is cooking the planet.
How livestock grazing is benefiting the planet.
Sizewell C nuclear plant funding approved despite Tory split.
The rise of vertical farms: could indoor plant factories be the norm in 10 years?
William MacAskill: ‘There are 80 trillion people yet to come. They need us to start protecting them’.
The Trials review – a teenage jury call their climate-ruining elders to account.
The secret strength of old grape vines.
Stories draw us to the hero’s journey, but individual empathy doesn’t help us see the bigger picture.
Teed off: golf courses fighting to retain their turf in Australian cities.
Anonymous street art with a political message.
Water company CEOs try to woo me, but I’ve got only one message for them: do your jobs.
Diet for a hotter climate: five plants that could help feed the world.
Pat Conroy on Labor’s engagement with our Pacific neighbours.
Let’s turn our hands to British Sign Language.
Muster Station: Leith review – visceral vision of the looming apocalypse.
‘Generation sensible’ risk missing out on life experiences, therapists warn.
Scotland’s butterflies flourishing in hotter summers.
Cop28: UN climate chief warns nations not to ‘fall into the trap of point-scoring’.
Mary Robinson reiterates call for rapid phase-out of fossil fuels.
After Cop28, know this: Sunak and his rightwing allies around the world have no interest in saving our planet.
Climate funding must be faster and easier, says deputy PM of flood-hit Somalia.
The Winterkeeper: a lifetime spent protecting the wilderness.
The Winterkeeper: protecting the US’s last great wilderness.
The UN holds the first Cop climate conference in Berlin – archive, 1995.
Cop28’s pipe dream: inside the 8 December Guardian Weekly.
German heat pump rollout at risk as government suspends climate subsidies.
Earth on verge of five catastrophic climate tipping points, scientists warn.
Australia ends finance for fossil fuel expansion overseas – now focus turns to local subsidies.
UK likely to miss Paris climate targets by wide margin, analysis shows.
Cop28: anger after record number of fossil fuel lobbyists given access to summit.
‘No climate justice without peace’: Gaza becomes flashpoint for climate activists.
Australian EV sales have increased by 185% since 2022.
Global carbon emissions from fossil fuels to hit record high.
Record number of fossil fuel lobbyists get access to Cop28 climate talks.
‘A matter of survival’: India’s unstoppable need for air conditioners.
Al Jaber says comments claiming there is ‘no science’ behind demands for phase-out of fossil fuels were ‘misinterpreted’ – Cop28 as it happened.
Hiker deaths in Grand Canyon rise amid extreme weather linked to climate crisis.
The race to find out what killed hundreds of pink dolphins in the Amazon.
Australia sweats through hottest August on record with temperatures 3C above average.
It’s time to give up on ‘normal’ weather: Australia’s climate is entering a different phase.
‘We don’t want all the fluffy stuff’: Pacific islands push Australia to take strong action on climate.
A brutal hurricane razed their town. Five years later, they’re still searching for home.
More August temperature records expected to fall amid warm weather and winds across east coast.
Alarm as Australia records ‘gobsmacking’ hot August temperatures.
Which multiple record breaker is so hot right now?
Emissions from Australian coal-fired power stations rise as wind and hydro dip.
‘I panic when I hear rain’: New York’s deadly basement apartments face growing flooding risk.
Kamala Harris defends policy stances and shares plan for office in first major interview.
‘Everywhere jam-packed’: mayor of Santorini warns of overtourism crisis.
Aquatic life under threat as pollution and warmer waters wreak havoc.
‘Next question, please’ and Gaza war: key takeaways from Harris and Walz’s first interview.
Millions swelter as central and eastern US placed under excessive heat watch.
UK may unveil tougher emissions targets at Cop29 climate summit.
First Thing: the Democrat ticket’s first major interview of the campaign.
Winter’s unseasonal warmth and clear skies are glorious – but a forbidding sign of danger to come.
The Guardian view on the climate emergency: we cannot afford to despair.
I’m a British farmer. Here’s the scary truth about what’s happening to our crops.
Disease and hunger soar in Latin America after floods and drought, study finds.
‘Hopeless and broken’: why the world’s top climate scientists are in despair.
World’s top climate scientists expect global heating to blast past 1.5C target.
Venezuela loses its last glacier as it shrinks down to an ice field.
Methane emissions: Australian cattle industry suggests shift from net zero target to ‘climate neutral’ approach.
‘I’ve never seen anything like it’: can Jamaica adapt to the Caribbean’s increasingly unpredictable weather?
UN expert attacks ‘exploitative’ world economy in fight to save planet.
‘I’ve only the clothes on my back’: lives swept away by floods in Kenya.
Why are the world’s cities sinking?
Belgian students occupy Ghent University building in climate and Gaza protest.
Ghent students occupy university building in climate and Gaza protest.
The synthetic coffee revolution: are ground date seeds really as delicious as the real thing?
Poorer nations must be transparent over climate spending, says Cop29 leader.
Sport and the climate emergency: collating injustice with an action plan.
Buddha taught us to be happy with less. How does this apply to the climate crisis?
Readers reply: which conspiracy theories have been proved true?
‘We’re looking at losing 20% of Olympic nations’: how the climate crisis is changing sport.
Cop29 summit to call for peace between warring states, says host Azerbaijan.
Chilli peppers, coffee, wine: how the climate crisis is causing food shortages.
Climate change role clear in many extreme events but social factors also key, study finds.
NSW premier labels Blockade Australia protesters ‘bloody idiots’ as Sydney police make 12 more arrests.
Australia ‘ill-prepared’ for food insecurity driven by war and climate crisis, former defence leaders say.
Guardian Essential poll: voters back minimum wage rise but divided on Labor’s climate target.
Olaf Scholz says world must ‘avoid Putin’s trap’ and claims of discord.
UN head declares ‘ocean emergency’ as global leaders gather in Lisbon.
‘Get a real job’: NSW deputy premier lashes out at Blockade Australia protesters.
Japanese told to turn off lights to save energy amid Tokyo heatwave.
Brenda the Uncivil Disobedience Penguin on all these anti-protest laws.
Tanya Plibersek declares environment ‘is back front and centre’ in Australia at UN ocean conference.
Oyster and kelp farmers join calls to future-proof NSW south coast’s blue economy.
Seville to name and classify heatwaves in effort to protect public.
Thousands protest against G7 in Munich as leaders gather for summit.
‘It keeps on going’: driving the world’s first production-ready solar car.
Rewilding the Galápagos can be a model for a new way to coexist with nature.
Why Britain desperately needs a new story about ‘glorious weather’.
Here is what the Liberal party could learn from the Conservatives under David Cameron.
Blockade Australia: how a ‘sharp-eyed hippy’ set off events that cast a harsh light on anti-protest laws.
Energy treaty update fails to address climate crisis, activists say.
MP Caroline Lucas: ‘My biggest disappointment? Not to have been joined by more Green MPs … yet’.
Unilever to scale back environmental and social pledges.
Bid to secure spot for glacier in Icelandic presidential race heats up.
Biden administration moves to restrict oil and gas leases on 13m acres in Alaska.
UN livestock emissions report seriously distorted our work, say experts.
‘Wake-up call’: pipeline leak exposes carbon capture safety gaps, advocates say.
Weather tracker: rains bring deadly flash floods to Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Victimise people who raise a voice in Britain? Then destroy their families? Not in my name.
UK politics: Tory HQ resists calls to refer Menzies allegations to police.
‘Reprehensible retreat’: fury as Scottish ministers scrap carbon emissions pledge.
US lawmakers Elizabeth Warren and Ro Khanna seek to ban trade in water rights.
Plastic-production emissions could triple to one-fifth of Earth’s carbon budget – report.
Lethal heatwave in Sahel worsened by fossil fuel burning, study finds.
Don’t blame cloud seeding for the Dubai floods.
'I want to go home': passengers stranded by Dubai extreme floods.
Climate crisis: average world incomes to diminish by nearly a fifth by 2050.
Funding Australia’s renewable transition isn’t ‘picking winners’ – it’s securing our future.
Gene-editing crops to be colourful could aid weeding, say scientists.
What the desert city of Dubai looks like after its biggest rainfall in 75 years.
Kamala Harris addresses Cop28 amid mixed reaction to US climate pledges.
Cop28: US commits to close coal-fired power plants.
Divert military spending to fund climate aid, activists urge Cop28.
Copping out? Biden skips UN climate conference.
Sunak accused of retreating from global climate leadership at Cop28.
Ditching the car is good for you and the planet.
Cop28: King Charles warns of ‘vast, frightening experiment’ on natural world.
The Guardian view on Cop28: energy companies are not the only ones with a carbon addiction.
What Sunak claims about the UK’s climate record – and the reality.
Belgian court orders 55% emissions cut from 1990 levels.
Climate politics is 'close to breaking point', Rishi Sunak tells Cop28.
Cop28: Rishi Sunak says ‘climate politics is close to breaking point’.
Developing countries need private sector help. They can’t fight the climate crisis on their own.
Gender equality goals under threat in climate crisis-hit countries, says UN.
Cop28 diary: expensive coffee, cheesy slogans and petrol fumes.
‘Our tapestries open ears’: the South African women stitching monumental tales of love and loss.
'The Earth does not belong to us': King Charles addresses Cop28 climate summit.
Stage set for national cabinet clash over GST.
Eight climate activists arrested in Germany over airport protest.
Honduran city’s air pollution is almost 50 times higher than WHO guidelines.
Economic damage from climate change six times worse than thought – report.
Shell urged to clarify climate targets as it braces for shareholder rebellion.
Cop29 at a crossroads in Azerbaijan with focus on climate finance.
New Dutch coalition aims to reintroduce 80mph limit in cull of climate goals.
Activists sue Russia over ‘weak’ climate policy.
Ron DeSantis signs bill scrubbing ‘climate change’ from Florida state laws.
Net zero U-turns will hit UK infrastructure, say government advisers.
Climate disruption to UK seasons causes problems for migratory birds.
Walkleys end media awards sponsorship deal with fossil fuel company Ampol.
What keeps the world’s top climate scientists up at night?
The fears of top climate scientists: inside the 17 May edition.
Don’t despair about the climate. Be part of the social tipping point.
The world’s poorest didn’t cause the climate crisis, but they bear the brunt of it.
The village that fell into a river: Sim Chi Yin’s best photograph.
I swapped my south LA lawn for a verdant microfarm – now I feed the neighborhood.
House Democrats launch investigation into Trump’s alleged offers to oil executives.
Chair of Nuclear for Australia denies that calling CO2 ‘plant food’ means he is a climate denier.
Climate activists in frame for £1m costs of protest bans run up by UK’s biggest law firm.
Tax credits in Biden’s landmark climate law disproportionately benefit well-off.
Heat inequality ‘causing thousands of unreported deaths in poor countries’.
‘The place I love is in flames’: the people living and working in extreme heat.
‘The new reality’: Athens wildfire victims vow to adapt and stay put.
Extremist or mainstream: how do Tim Walz’s policies match up globally?
Zigzag patterns on walls could help cool overheated buildings, study finds.
Affluent Norway has third highest per-capita domestic flight emissions.
Last month marked the world’s hottest July on record, US scientists say.
Government drops appeal over climate activist who held sign outside UK court.
Revealed: Shell oil non-profit donated to anti-climate groups behind Project 2025.
German climate activists stop air traffic after breaking into four airport sites.
‘We should have better answers by now’: climate scientists baffled by unexpected pace of heating.
Cities are tackling rising heat – but they have to avoid a dangerous trap.
Survivors of climate disasters demand US inquiry into big oil’s ‘climate crimes’.
‘This year has been dead’: where have Britain’s insects gone?
Liquefied natural gas pollution linked to 60 premature US deaths a year – report.
Flaming out? Burning Man festival fails to sell out for first time in a decade.
Fallout from Woodside’s birthday bash shows Australia is far from united in climate fight.
Geologists reject declaration of Anthropocene epoch.
World’s largest oil companies ‘way off track’ on emissions goals, report finds.
There are more than 1,000 varieties of banana, and we eat one of them. Here’s why that’s absurd.
‘When it’s this hot, time stands still’: surviving west Africa’s blistering heat.
HSBC and NatWest accused of financing North Sea oil extraction despite pledge.
Women and girls suffer first when droughts hit poor and rural areas, says UN.
Sixteen states sue US over ban on approvals for LNG exports.
Why doctors need to advocate for clean air.
Fossil fuel firms could be tried in US for homicide over climate-related deaths, experts say.
Emission impossible: the maddening, nightmare quest to decarbonize my home.
West Africa heatwave was supercharged by climate crisis, study finds.
Weatherwatch: record winter warmth may not be good news for birds.
Simon Armitage releases spring-themed poetry collection celebrating blossom.
The silencing of climate protesters in English and Welsh courts.
South Sudan closes schools in preparation for 45C heatwave.
South Sudan closes schools in preparation for 45C heatwave.
Emissions connected to top oil and gas firms may cause millions of heat deaths by 2100, study finds.
Global heating could cause an extra 1.2m lamb deaths in Australia each year, study finds.
A nuclear plant’s closure was hailed as a green win. Then emissions went up.
Labour to make fighting global heating a priority for Bank of England.
At least 59 dead and millions stranded as floods devastate India and Bangladesh.
‘Death is birth’: Megan Cope on creating art out of catastrophe.
The climate crisis is hitting the planet’s working classes the hardest and they know it.
Burning planet: why are the world’s heatwaves getting more intense?
‘Hell’s temperatures’: how Guardian US readers are enduring the heatwave.
‘Historic’ weather: why a cocktail of natural disasters is battering the US.
Europe heatwave: France braces for record-breaking temperatures as Spain battles forest fires.
Extreme heatwave hits the UK.
A four-day week? Five? Not so long ago it was five and a half.
As urban temperatures climb, here’s what the modern city should look like.
Fossil fuel firms ‘have humanity by the throat’, says UN head in blistering attack.
‘We worry about it disappearing’: alarm grows over Italy’s drought-hit Po River.
UN climate talks end in stalemate and ‘hypocrisy’ allegation.
Mollusc mass mortality event: can Spain’s giant fan mussels recover?
‘It cannot be activism as usual’: Kumi Naidoo and Luisa Neubauer on the way forward for climate justice.
Friday briefing: How extreme heat is changing the way we live.
Rare birds’ arrival an ‘unmissable sign’ climate emergency has reached Britain.
Polar bears found to be surviving despite lack of sea ice offers hope for species.
The Guardian view on Dom Phillips and Bruno Pereira: justice for them, safety for others.
Greenhouse gases must be legally phased out, US scientists argue.
Will Australia’s iconic landmarks be destroyed by climate change?
Pacific islands submit court proposal for recognition of ecocide as a crime.
Warm fronts to Y-fronts: Chinese city hit by underwear storm.
Sharks deserting coral reefs as oceans heat up, study shows.
Weather tracker: Francine looking likely to be next Atlantic hurricane.
Most US voters say plastics industry should be held responsible for recycling claims – report.
A Britain proud of its present and realistic about its past is taking shape: with the angry right trailing behind.
Almost 68% of Australia’s tourism sites at major risk if climate crisis continues, report says.
Point-to-point speed camera trial coming to NSW.
Tropical depression, a type of cyclone, may form in Gulf of Mexico next week.
Heatwave across US west breaks records for highest temperatures.
‘We’ve not had a summer’: retailers battle unpredictable British weather.
Hottest summer on record could lead to warmest year ever measured.
‘Oh my God, what is that?’: how the maelstrom under Greenland’s glaciers could slow future sea level rise.
‘Flight shame is dead’: concern grows over climate impact of tourism boom.
If Trump wins the election, it will doom our efforts to slow climate disaster.
Temperatures surge in south-eastern Australia as windy weather blasts NSW and Victoria.
At least 19 people contract fungal infection after California music festival, officials say.
University funding from fossil fuels slowing switch to green energy – report.
The vanishing mangroves of El Salvador: ‘All our efforts may only slow the destruction’.
Activists dismiss NSW government crackdown on Sydney port protests.
The world’s forests do more than just store carbon, new research finds.
It’s nonsense for Angus Taylor to suggest Australia could face an energy crisis like Europe’s.
Brisbane mayor Adrian Schrinner joins call for federal government to take climate action.
Australia’s carbon credit scheme could take years to recover from price plunge, analysts say.
The weird, wonderful and ultimately exhausting life of the antechinus.
UN mission must see coral bleaching to get ‘whole picture’ of Great Barrier Reef, experts say.
UN chief calls for extreme weather warning systems for everyone on Earth.
Swap your fence for a hedge, says RHS as it begins climate study.
Virtual conferences exclude most African women – how can we be heard?
Tory MPs call the green transition ‘unaffordable’. Europe is proving that’s a lie.
Labor denies bullying reports after death of Kimberly Kitching; NZ to drop vaccine mandate.
The floods have damaged Scott Morrison but it’s not over yet.
Climate crisis is greatest threat to Australia’s future and security, former defence leaders warn.
Young global climate strike 2022: share your photos and stories.
SA hospitals under ‘extraordinary strain’; Perrottet asks MP to resign after charges.
UN's Guterres calls coal a 'stupid investment' in swipe at Australia's fossil fuel focus.
‘Chattering classes’: Australian government dismisses UN secretary general’s climate criticism.
The Guardian view on fuel duty cuts: expediency over the environment.
US watchdog plans to make companies reveal greenhouse-gas emissions.
Doctors from around the world unite to call for urgent climate action.
Sydney turns over a new leaf and says goodbye to much-maligned plane trees.
Eat plants and go electric: how to break food TV’s bad climate habits.
‘These levels are crazy’: Louisiana tap water sees huge spike in toxic chemicals.
How to tell if it’s time to replace your solar panels and what to do with your old ones.
Rich countries should stop pushing fossil fuels on Africa – don’t we deserve a renewable future too?
At what threshold is Greenland ice cap’s melting irreversible?
Stop locking young people out of legal process in climate cases, say experts.
The West Australian goes big on Woodside’s ‘keeping lights on’ claim but keeps readers in dark on climate.
Australian artist ‘a tad hysterical’ after Albanese gifts her bushfire painting to Biden.
Aukus will ‘get done’ despite jitters in Congress, Biden tells Albanese at White House meeting.
UK farmers warn of rotting crops after Storm Babet flooding.
Earth close to ‘risk tipping points’ that will damage our ability to deal with climate crisis, warns UN.
Climate change is finally solved! We can just let nature take its course.
Young Europeans more likely to quit driving and have fewer children to save planet.
Scientists discover hidden landscape ‘frozen in time’ under Antarctic ice.
Recipe for disaster: how good cooking shows can be terrible for the planet.
EU must cut carbon emissions three times faster to meet targets, report says.
Earth’s ‘vital signs’ worse than at any time in human history, scientists warn.
Indigenous peoples had a clear vision for Cop26, but it has not been delivered.
Rising humidity could be linked to increase in suicides, report finds.
How workers unknowingly fund the climate crisis with their pensions.
The planet is on the clock and Australia has an inexplicable position on climate – it really isn’t funny.
Stop talking, start acting, says Africa’s first extreme heat official.
Cop26 took us one step closer to combating the climate crisis.
Barnaby Joyce says Nationals did not sign Cop26 pact and Australia is ‘happy with targets’.
Palm oil land grabs ‘trashing’ environment and displacing people.
Just 124 people own most of England’s deep peat – its largest carbon store.
Floods, sewage and crocodiles: the crisis of the Gambia’s sinking city.
Ratchets, phase-downs and a fragile agreement: how Cop26 played out.
Cop26: Pacific delegates condemn ‘monumental failure’ that leaves islands in peril.
Cop26: where does the world go from here?
Empty words, no action: Cop26 has failed First Nations people.
Cop26 will make life harder for Australian fossil fuel industry, NSW treasurer predicts.
Alok Sharma ‘deeply frustrated’ by India and China over coal.
Boris Johnson plays down weakening of Cop26 coal ambitions.
The Guardian view on the Cop26 agreement: unfinished business.
Cop26: death knell for coal has been sounded, says Boris Johnson.
Watered-down hope: the sobering legacy of Cop26.
Friday briefing: The pressure is on at Cop29 to fill in the blanks in the climate finance deal.
Poor nations may have to downgrade climate cash demands, ex-UN envoy says.
US moves to list giraffes under Endangered Species Act for first time.
NHS was ‘within hours’ of running out of gowns during pandemic, Hancock tells Covid inquiry.
Cop29: UN chair ‘so sick’ of Saudi Arabia’s defence of fossil fuels.
US and India lead G20 on climate action, report says.
John Prescott, a ‘critical force’ in climate policy, will be missed at Cop29.
Revealed: McKinsey clients had ‘rising share of global emissions’, internal analysis shows.
'It is a shame': Starmer laments lack of Tory support for climate measures.
As we wait for national legislation, let’s launch a Green New Deal from below.
Cop29 climate finance deal hits fresh setback as deadline looms.
‘The land is tearing itself apart’: life on a collapsing Arctic isle.
Trump’s science-denying fanatics are bad enough. Yet even our climate ‘solutions’ are now the stuff of total delusion.
Weatherwatch: Fewer birds migrating to UK in winter due to ‘short-stopping’.
A bomb cyclone looms over California and Pacific north-west – but what is it?
Australia hoped hosting a Cop climate summit was a done deal. But one nation still stands in the way.
Australia and Turkey in standoff to be host of crucial 2026 climate talks.
Cop29: campaigners say talks are ‘reaching point of real emotion’.
BlackRock accused of contributing to climate and human rights abuses.
Sky News Australia documentary The Real Cost of Net Zero fails to live up to its hubris, with viewers paying the price.
People in the US: has your air conditioning failed in the heatwave and could you get it fixed?
Italian media more focused on foreign coverage of heatwave than its effects.
People evacuate homes as wildfire rages south of Greek capital.
Europe should cap ‘luxury’ energy use to meet emissions targets, study says.
Longer heatwaves driven by ‘turbo-charged’ climate change, say scientists.
Leaked UK government plan to protect against climate heat ‘very weak’.
Drone footage shows extent of wildfires in Spain's La Palma.
Weather tracker: temperatures to intensify in Europe as new heatwave hits.
Turkey: helicopters drop water on raging wildfires that are threatening residential areas.
US climate envoy meets Chinese counterpart on hottest ever day in China.
UK investors backtrack on support for climate resolution at oil firms’ AGMs.
‘We used to check every day, now it’s every minute’: how we got addicted to weather apps.
Airport expansion does not boost UK growth or productivity – report.
Millions in US under warnings as record heat expected to continue next week.
‘Your heart races a bit’: US weather man threatened with death for mentioning climate crisis.
World experiences hottest week ever recorded and more is forecast to come.
Top UK energy firms to warn Rishi Sunak: ‘Don’t back off green agenda’.
‘I am worried about my health’: British holidaymakers fear heatwave in Europe.
WA Nippers parents speak out against Woodside Energy sponsorship deal.
Western Canada braces for more torrential rain after deadly mudslides.
Monarch butterflies may be thriving after years of decline. Is it a comeback?
Indigenous community evicted as land clashes over agribusiness rock Paraguay.
Floods and wildfires are now normal life in small-town Canada.
Cop27 is in Egypt next year … but will anyone be allowed to protest?
Andrew Marr ‘wants to be free of BBC rules so he can speak out on climate’.
Climate denial is waning on the right. What’s replacing it might be just as scary.
Climate protesters block London bridges after activists jailed.
Hot in the city: can a ban on dark roofs cool Sydney?
The week in audio: Life Sentence; A Mother Tongue; dot com: The Wikipedia Story and more.
Farmers tempt endangered cranes back – by growing their favourite food.
Toxic waters devastated Pacific Coast fisheries. But who’s to blame?
Migrant caravan and Qatar’s tarnished World Cup: human rights this fortnight.
Yes, Cop26 could have gone further – but it still brought us closer to a 1.5C world.
US wildfires have killed nearly 20% of world’s giant sequoias in two years.
Ocean scientists call for global tracking of oxygen loss that causes dead zones.
We Morris drivers are on board with renewables.
The migraine cure you won’t get on the NHS.
Dozens of academics shun Science Museum over fossil fuel ties.
Sunak faces further pressure over net zero U-turn after IEA warning.
‘We’ve lost control’: what happens when the west Antarctic ice sheet melts?.
Australia will need more volunteers to fight the climate onslaught.
Controversy over European climate activists’ criticism of Israel.
Rapid ice melt in west Antarctica now inevitable, research shows.
‘There’s still beauty’: a national park bounces back after California’s biggest single fire.
Case against 14 Queensland climate protesters adjourned as questions raised over validity of charges.
Heat pump grant boosted by 50% to improve slow take-up across England and Wales.
Surging renewable energy sees record supply to Australia’s electricity grid.
Worst-case scenario isn’t jail but climate breakdown, Queensland activists say as day in court arrives.
Children at ‘existential risk’ from climate crisis, UK’s top paediatrician says.
Billions of snow crabs in Alaska likely vanished due to warm ocean, study says.
Throw a dog a bean: how to reduce the carbon footprint of your pets.
‘It’s time for us to go’: the Mexican fishing village swallowed by the sea.
John Vidal obituary.
Meet the climate crisis speed-daters: ‘If you don’t love the planet, you won’t be my boo’.
Impact of farming on climate crisis will be a key Cop topic – finally.
‘The anti-livestock people are a pest’: how UN food body played down role of farming in climate change.
High steaks society: who are the 12% of people consuming half of all beef in the US?
From the Guardian archive: some of John Vidal’s greatest pieces.
The Observer view on Ukraine and the climate emergency.
‘Worse than 2017’: Lismore faces mammoth rebuild after flood as community inundated by loss.
The world is unpredictable and strange. Still, there is hope in the madness.
Q&A: Has the IPCC’s bleak warning of climate breakdown been heard?
Lost Forest: why is BrewDog’s green scheme causing controversy?
Corporate tree-planting drive in Scotland ‘risks widening rural inequality’.
‘Unscientific’: Morrison government wanted IPCC to say Great Barrier Reef ‘not yet in crisis’.
‘Catastrophic failure’: fury among NSW northern rivers locals ‘forgotten’ by authorities.
Anatomy of a ‘rain bomb’: scientists strive to understand phenomenon that caused Australia’s east coast floods.
Oil and gas lobbyists are using Ukraine to push for a drilling free-for-all in the US.
UK not prepared for climate impacts, warns IPCC expert.
Fifth death reported in NSW; ‘it’s climate change,’ Palaszczuk says as Qld death toll rises to 10.
Ukraine war prompts European reappraisal of its energy supplies.
The PM calls this a natural disaster – it’s not natural, it’s climate change smashing down our doors.
Don’t blame scientists for all the world’s ills.
The lasting impact of climate disasters.
Liberal MP wants Coalition to expand $10bn scheme supporting insurers to cover all natural disasters.
We cling to our memory of the perfect summer – before flood, fire and plague. But the past is gone and we have to wake up.
Are eastern Australia’s catastrophic floods really a one-in-1,000 year event?
Tasmania records driest summer in 40 years as La Niña ‘swings the wind around’.
I’m finally into ‘prepping’ and ready for the apocalypse.
Anthony Albanese ‘very confident’ Australian exporters won’t be slugged with heavy US trade tariffs.
Trump picks oil and gas industry CEO Chris Wright as next energy secretary.
UN warns of ‘economic carnage’ if G20 leaders cannot agree on climate finance for poor countries.
Little sign of rain to alleviate drought and wildfire risks in US north-east.
Almost 500 carbon capture lobbyists granted access to Cop29 climate summit.
Fossil fuel bosses get ‘red carpet’ at Cop29 despite concerns over influence.
The Guardian view on UN climate talks: rich and poor nations can strike a win-win deal.
Poetry’s place in a time of climate crisis.
Will Trump now save the Chagos Islands?
Fears grow that Milei will withdraw Argentina from Paris climate accord.
Cop29: oil bosses given red carpet treatment at climate summit.
Move towards renewable energy is unstoppable, says Ed Miliband.
‘A fork in the road’: laundry-sorting robot spurs AI hopes and fears at Europe’s biggest tech event.
Chris Bowen makes last-minute diplomatic stop in Turkey as Australia ramps up bid to host Cop31.
China faces crucial decisions on climate policy during second Trump term.
Weather tracker: Record 22.9C at night makes Iceland warmest place in Europe.
Picture an all-seeing eye scanning the dying Earth – and then lighting on our ‘solutions’ at Cop29.
‘Smart’ devices have serious downsides.
‘I’m prepared to die’: man on hunger strike fights for MPs to get climate briefing.
Third of all compost sold in UK is climate-damaging peat.
Man on Westminster hunger strike fighting for MPs to get climate briefing.
Britain hands billions to projects linked to labour abuse and climate damage.
Last stop, underwater: the Spanish railway line being devoured by the sea.
Ghost flights from UK running at 500 a month, data reveals.
How flower festivals are moving amid changing climate.
Heavy-handed approach to aid has disenchanted Pacific Island nations and compromised Australia’s security.
If Frydenberg is serious about resilience, he needs to address the root causes of climate change.
After the fall: what a garden might look like at the end of the world.
Letter: Sir Crispin Tickell obituary.
The Met Office will declare fewer heatwaves: what a gift for climate crisis deniers.
Paradise underwater: the floods that caught Byron Bay off-guard.
Putin exploits the lie machine but didn’t invent it. British history is also full of untruths.
Here in Byron Bay we survived last month’s flooding – but this is something else.
Half of Tory backbench MPs have joined party’s green group.
Budget papers show Morrison government to reduce annual climate spending over next four years.
Met Office to increase heatwave thresholds across parts of England.
Three months after a wildfire swept through, displaced Colorado residents struggle to rebuild.
COP15: is 2022 the year we save biodiversity?
South Korea accused of paying lip service to climate action after deadly floods.
I thought the government’s plan to protect Britain from extreme heat would be bad. It’s worse than that.
Thursday briefing: What’s behind Europe’s extreme heat – and the risks ahead.
Extreme weather threatens existence of house martins in Britain.
Heavy on the rhetoric, light on facts: campaign against net zero fields familiar tropes.
Extreme heat: what does it do to us and how can we adapt?.
Extreme weather: the climate crisis in four charts.
Extreme heat: a warning shot from nature.
Flying in Europe up to 30 times cheaper than train, says Greenpeace.
Extreme weather: heat strains healthcare systems, says WHO; Nasa to meet climate experts.
What is supercharging the global heat?.
Labor faces internal fight over native forest logging despite emissions pledge.
NSW Liberal plan to generate carbon credits by ending logging in state forests snubbed by federal Labor.
Wildfires rage around Athens for third day as water bombers join effort.
With the climate in peril, winning slowly is the same as losing. How can Starmer settle for that?
EU sends water bombers to help fight wildfires around Athens.
John Kerry in China: climate crisis must be separated from politics.
This heatwave is a climate omen. But it’s not too late to change course.
‘We are damned fools’: scientist who sounded climate alarm in 80s warns of worse to come.
The northern hemisphere is on fire! The temperature records being broken are record-breaking!.
Guardian Europe: What do migration, climate, Covid, Ukraine and rightwing populism have in common?
Europe’s olive oil supply running out after drought – and the odd hailstorm.
Big European insurers ‘underwrite 30% of US coal despite net zero pledges’.
‘I call it botanarchy’: The Hackney guerrilla gardener bringing power to the people.
Swiss glaciers lose 10% of their volume in two years.
EU faces ‘make or break moment’ for green transition, report says.
Vietnam jails leading climate activist Hoang Thi Minh Hong for tax evasion.
Woodside plan for seismic blasting at Scarborough offshore gas field blocked by court.
What is the climate crisis doing to Australia’s weather extremes? A Coalition frontbencher gets it ‘patently wrong’.
Bob Carr warns environment movement ‘in danger of fading’ amid huge challenges.
Anthony Albanese to accelerate transition to low emissions after voice referendum.
With Rosebank, Britain appears willing to leave climate plans in tatters.
Girl, 11, among six young people taking on 32 nations in historic climate case.
UK electric car sales risk falling further behind after Sunak U-turn, analysts say.
I’m a Tory MP, but I know Rishi Sunak’s claims about the cost of net zero are false.
Deputy premier puts hand up for Victoria’s top job.
Brown bear cubs in Japan die of starvation amid salmon shortage.
‘Staggering’ green growth gives hope for 1.5C, says global energy chief.
Greens must shed ‘moral superiority’ image, says German vice-chancellor.
Antarctic sea ice shrinks to lowest annual maximum level on record, data shows.
Swallows and martins head back to the UK but a changing climate threatens their future.
An optimist’s guide to the future: the economist who believes that human ingenuity will save the world.
Ethiopian drought leading to ‘dramatic’ increase in child marriage, Unicef warns.
Politicians are basking in the ‘thrill’ of fossil fuels, but this election is Australia’s last chance to reset our climate attitude.
Four Just Stop Oil activists charged over protests at motorway service stations.
India and Pakistan heatwaves likely to become more severe, say scientists.
Climate crisis – not China – is biggest threat to Pacific, say former leaders.
Extreme heatwave in India and Pakistan causes power and water shortages.
Global heating risks most cataclysmic extinction of marine life in 250m years.
Just Stop Oil protesters sabotage petrol pumps on M25 motorway.
‘Relentless’ destruction of rainforest continuing despite Cop26 pledge.
Trent Zimmerman says moderate MPs ‘prevailed’ over Barnaby Joyce on net zero emissions.
How the climate crisis is changing Greenland’s weather.
Calling the safeguard mechanism a ‘sneaky carbon tax’ is a scare campaign and an argument for inaction.
Dear politicians, young climate activists are not abuse victims, we are children who read news.
Coalition climate policy forced big polluters to pay $15m for carbon credits in past year.
Greens to push for coal export levy if they hold balance of power.
‘We have a democracy problem’: how Texas voter suppression helps keep climate action off the table.
Business backs government climate policy that Morrison says is a ‘carbon tax’ when attacking Labor.
US and Europe behind majority of global ecological damage, says study.
Pinterest announces ban on all climate misinformation.
Scientists have just told us how to solve the climate crisis – will the world listen?
UK to defy net zero targets with more oil and gas drilling.
‘I never needed people to like me’: Dragons’ Den star Deborah Meaden on snobbery, fame and her 40-year marriage.
Scott Morrison refuses Queensland’s request to split $741m flood resilience funding.
IPCC: We can tackle climate change if big oil gets out of the way.
UK ‘too slow’ over climate crisis despite stark IPCC report.
The world is on fire. Why is Canada considering massive new oil drilling?
When will the world reach 1.5C of global heating?
Liberal MP accuses Scott Morrison of ‘ruthless bullying’ and scheming at the expense of flood victims.
Bird populations in Panama rainforest in severe decline, study finds.
World on 'fast track to climate disaster', says UN secretary general.
The Guardian view on the latest IPCC report: a fast track to climate disaster.
We urgently need to cut emissions – the good news is we can do it quickly and relatively cheaply.
Why are the three IPCC working group reports significant?
Final warning: what does the IPCC’s third report instalment say?
It’s over for fossil fuels: IPCC spells out what’s needed to avert climate disaster.
IPCC report: ‘now or never’ if world is to stave off climate disaster.
Lost in translation: is research into species being missed because of a language barrier?
Exclude fossil fuel firms from Cop28 if they only want to obstruct, says ex-UN chief.
‘He is making the UK a climate villain’: MEPs denounce Sunak’s net zero retreat.
‘Wishful thinking’ for Sunak to say UK on course to meet emissions targets, says Climate Change Committee boss.
Swedish government faces backlash after slashing climate budget.
Sunak’s anti-green stance exposes his reckless dishonesty. His fate is what matters, the planet can go hang.
Climate change 'most existential challenge' says King Charles after government U-turn.
Eastern Australia sweltered under heatwaves this week. How unusual were they?
One in six chance of a ‘species-ending event’ in next century, Labor MP Andrew Leigh warns.
Sunak’s bold climate plan? Wait until 2047 – then push the panic button.
'You're making claims that aren't true': Sunak pressed on scrapping 'meat tax' proposal – audio.
Inside the Tory climate soap opera this week: ‘The WhatsApp groups are a bloodbath’.
Climate crisis: UN secretary general warns ‘humanity has opened the gates of hell’.
Two rare seabirds spotted off Isles of Scilly.
Australians are being urged to develop heatwave plans. Here’s what you need to know.
Al Gore leads international chorus of disapproval for Sunak’s climate U-turn.
Rishi Sunak, net zero and Europe – Politics Weekly UK.
The mystery of Europe’s heat death hotspot.
Twitter ranks worst in climate change misinformation report.
‘Dangerous and desperate’: Westminster reacts to Sunak’s net zero U-turn.
Zelenskiy calls for Russia to lose UN veto power; UN chief says ‘humanity has opened gates of hell’ on climate - as it happened.
Mid-income developing countries ‘risk losing out on climate funds’.
Greek wildfires: moment ammo depot explodes caught on live TV broadcasts.
‘Our daughter asked if we were going to die’: diary of a tourist in Greek wildfires.
Dancing down the wicket: shining a light on cricket and the climate crisis.
Sharks are turning up off European beaches – but there’s no need to panic.
Wildfire damages ammunition depot near Greek city of Volos.
Trump hit with further counts in classified documents case as second aide charged.
Biden announces new measures to protect Americans from extreme heat.
A short-lived guide to saving the Earth.
Could global warming benefit the UK as Lord Frost claims? We check the facts.
Southern Europe and north Africa count heavy cost of wildfires.
'The era of global boiling has arrived' warns the UN.
Khan dismisses Sunak’s attack on his housebuilding record in London as ‘desperate nonsense’.
‘Era of global boiling has arrived,’ says UN chief as July set to be hottest month on record.
Drone footage shows scale of damage from wildfires on Rhodes.
Wildfires break out in the woodlands of Latakia province in Syria.
Ring of fire encircles Mediterranean amid record breaking heatwave.
‘Project 2025’: plan to dismantle US climate policy for next Republican president.
Joe Biden must declare a climate emergency. And he must do so now.
Ed Miliband urges PM to close ‘Swiss cheese’ holes in windfall tax on energy firms.
Deforestation emissions far higher than previously thought, study finds.
US supreme court signals it may restrict EPA’s ability to fight climate crisis.
What is the IPCC climate change report – and what does it say?
The rightwing US supreme court has climate protection in its sights.
Climate scientists warn global heating means Australia facing more catastrophic storms and floods.
IPCC issues ‘bleakest warning yet’ on impacts of climate breakdown.
This climate crisis report asks: what is at stake? In short, everything.
Yellowstone at 150: busier yet wilder than ever, says park’s ‘winterkeeper’.
Impact of climate crisis much worse than predicted, says Alok Sharma.
‘A deranged pyroscape’: how fires across the world have grown weirder.
Climate emergency a ‘national security’ concern, says Red Cross.
Thinktank linked to tech giant Canon under pressure to remove ‘dangerous’ climate articles.
Kristalina Georgieva: the IMF boss tackling Covid, the climate crisis and, now, war.
African countries spending billions to cope with climate crisis.
Christians in MP Steve Baker’s seat pray for him to quit role on climate thinktank.
Pollutionwatch: wood fires are bad for planet, more evidence shows.
Supreme court case could restrict Biden’s effort to tackle climate crisis.
Revealed: leading climate research publisher helps fuel oil and gas drilling.
North Sea oil exploration should not proceed but can, says UK’s climate committee.
Night-time attack on controversial Canadian gas pipeline site.
Project 2025 promises billions of tonnes more carbon pollution – study.
Unprecedented number of heat records broken around world this year.
How does today’s extreme heat compare with Earth’s past climate?
‘You feel like you’re suffocating’: Florida outdoor workers are collapsing in the heat without water and shade.
Commonwealth Bank to stop financing fossil fuel companies that don’t comply with Paris climate goals.
Police remove climate protesters from Parliament House in Canberra.
Half a billion children live in areas with twice as many very hot days as in 1960s.
‘The dumbest climate conversation of all time’: experts on the Musk-Trump interview.
US workers launch Heat Week to fight for ‘the right to water, shade and rest’.
Greece takes stock of wildfires that raged through Athens suburbs.
Greek minister says wildfires reduced to ‘scattered hotspots’.
Tuesday briefing: How Copenhagen is helping tourists go green.
Trump would pull out of Paris climate treaty again – and Harris faces tough choices.
A drowning town: are Bentiu’s dykes high enough to save it from disaster?
Successful environmental projects benefit nature and people, study finds.
Heat aggravated by carbon pollution killed 50,000 in Europe last year – study.
Greece has brought in the army to help extinguish fires raging out of control in eastern Attica.
Italian hospitals report rise in heat cases as weather fails to deter tourists.
Firefighters battle wildfires on the edge of Athens.
‘Losing Noah’s Ark’: Brazil’s plan to turn the Pantanal into waterway threatens world’s biggest wetland.
Sunak accused of sending wrong signals on climate crisis as he heads to Cop28.
Matt Hancock ‘was not told about eat out to help out scheme until day it was announced’.
Cop28: key funding deal to help poorer nations cope with impact of climate crisis agreed.
New York will plant thousands of trees using new tech to maximize foliage impact.
Slow transition to renewables puts Australia at risk of losing ‘attractive’ investment, super funds warn.
It’s climate Christmas! But data dump shows Australia has a long way to go on emissions.
Fossil fuel projects awaiting approval could blow Australia’s ‘carbon budget’ tenfold, climate groups say.
Climate crisis a ‘substantial risk’ to fight against malaria, says WHO.
Agreement on loss and damage deal reached on first day of Cop28 talks.
I’m not in hock to ideological zealots on climate, says Rishi Sunak.
I advised David Cameron in the days of ‘cut the green crap’. Here’s what both Tories and Labour could learn.
‘Climate collapse in real time’: UN head António Guterres urges Cop28 to act.
Change is coming. The question is: what kind of change will it be?
Immigration debate continues.
Europe has entered a new age of anxiety – and it’s dragging Britain along too.
We have to balance outrage with optimism, says UN’s former climate chief.
To the world leaders at Cop28 we say: do not squander this chance to get back on track.
The climate crisis explained in 10 charts.
New push for debt relief to help developing world fund climate action.
Good COP, Bad COP? – Politics Weekly UK.
Solicitor general to appeal over case of climate activist who held sign on jurors’ rights.
The 1.5C global heating target was always a dream, but its demise doesn’t signal doom for climate action.
Four kids left: The Thai school swallowed by the sea.
Herd of 170 bison could help store CO2 equivalent of 43,000 cars, researchers say.
Plantwatch: Britain’s volunteer naturalists provide vital knowledge.
MPs and peers urge Sunak to U-turn on oil and gas extraction plans.
‘Impossible’ heatwave struck Philippines in April, scientists find.
UK is failing to put climate crisis at centre of national security measures, MPs told.
Heat exposure of older people across world to double by 2050, finds study.
‘Magical thinking’: hopes for sustainable jet fuel not realistic, report finds.
Fossil fuel firms forcing countries to compensate them, Mary Robinson says.
British Columbia ‘extremely concerned’ as wildfire threatens to destroy town.
Fast fashion is wasteful, and thrifting is flawed. The solution: swap!.
Why we’re publishing a series on DIY climate solutions.
Banks have given almost $7tn to fossil fuel firms since Paris deal, report reveals.
Afghanistan flash floods kill more than 300 as torrents of water and mud crash through villages.
At least 50 dead after flash flooding in northern Afghanistan.
Ministers consider making UK’s carbon targets easier to meet.
Brutal heatwaves and submerged cities: what a 3C world would look like.
Entire Earth vibrated for nine days after climate-triggered mega-tsunami.
Natural History Museum plans revamp to become climate ‘catalyst for change’.
UK politics: No more money for NHS without reform, says Starmer as he outlines vision for health service.
Labor’s stalled environmental agenda under pressure from left and right.
Rapid intensification of Hurricane Francine is a sign of a hotter world.
Burned-out firefighters are fleeing the US Forest Service amid labor disputes: ‘We are decimated’.
Big oil faces a rising number of climate-focused lawsuits, report finds.
Consumerism and the climate crisis threaten equitable future for humanity, report says.
Massachusetts man buys $395,000 house despite warnings it will ‘fall into ocean’.
Save the Children pulls out of Science Museum event over sponsor concerns.
Climate experts lament Harris’s vow to keep fracking in debate with ‘walking oil spill’ Trump.
TikToker Caleb Graves dies after running Disneyland half-marathon in heatwave.
Resisting fascism includes respecting our environment and fellow species.
Brazilian president flies into Amazon amid alarm over droughts and wildfires.
Italy’s Marmolada glacier could disappear by 2040, experts say.
Hurricane warnings in effect as US Gulf coast braces for Tropical Storm Francine.
G20 countries turning backs on fossil fuel pledge, say campaigners.
Britain now stifles peaceful dissent like a repressive regime. It’s time to roll back our anti-protest laws.
‘Two incredible extreme events’: Antarctic sea ice on cusp of record winter low for second year running.
Rich countries silencing climate protest while preaching about rights elsewhere, says study.
Christians in Oxford asked to commit to protecting environment.
Pump up the volume: Cornish village to pilot communal grid for green energy.
‘Free public transport works’: a Q&A with Boston mayor Michelle Wu.
Hotter and hotter: Inside the 24 June Guardian Weekly.
Fans, sprinklers and cold baths for cows: India’s dairy farmers face searing heat.
Somalia: ‘The worst humanitarian crisis we’ve ever seen’.
US Forest Service admits ‘multiple miscalculations’ caused New Mexico fire.
Skiing on a sacred mountain: Indigenous Americans stand against a resort’s expansion.
Anthony Albanese to order intelligence chief to examine security threats posed by climate crisis.
Liberal MPs say Peter Dutton should let party room decide new climate position.
Young people go to European court to stop treaty that aids fossil fuel investors.
Truthful climate reporting shifts viewpoints, but only briefly, study finds.
Australia should rejoin UN climate fund to prove commitment to Pacific neighbours, thinktank argues.
Philip Sutton, inspiring Australian activist who sounded climate emergency alarm.
Unhoused in Phoenix’s perilous heat: ‘If I don’t keep cool, I’ll die’.
‘We just pray for rain’: Niger is in the eye of the climate crisis – and children are starving.
Only a tiny minority of rural Britons are farmers – so why do they hold such sway?
Vanuatu calls on Australia to back its UN bid to recognise climate change harm.
Heavy industries in Australia’s regions could cut emissions by 80% and create a jobs bonanza, report says.
Don’t despair at the state of our divided country.
Tuvalu accepts security and climate pact, says Australia’s Pacific minister.
‘Tone-deaf’ fossil gas growth in Europe is speeding climate crisis, say activists.
Australia’s carbon credits system a failure on global scale, study finds.
Kim Beazley urges Tanya Plibersek to reject Woodside LNG plant extension.
Andean alarm: climate crisis increases fears of glacial lake flood in Peru.
Does China spy on Britain? Of course. But we have more important things to discuss with them.
EU nature restoration laws face collapse as member states withdraw support.
Blaming John Howard is easy, but his government helped shape the world we live in – now and for future generations.
Are Gen Z as doomed as millennials or is it worse?
British Museum closes to visitors as Energy Embargo for Palestine group gathers outside.
California zombie lake turned farmland to water. A year later, is it gone for good?
Children of the flood: what can lands lost to rising waters tell us?
Which will melt away first, the snow or the arts?
Earth Hour 2024.
Is Science Museum’s green power gallery tainted by fossil-fuel cash?
UK genetics project looks for lost apple varieties to protect fruit in climate crisis.
‘Tourists ask a lot of questions’: Great Barrier Reef guides face up to bleaching tragedy.
‘Planting a tree is hope in action’: the people regenerating urban habitats and growing community.
How do climate scientists look after themselves?
It’s not all doom and gloom when it comes to the climate.
The climate crisis is no laughing matter, no matter what those on Radio 4’s Today programme think.
Two Just Stop Oil protesters attack Magna Carta’s glass case.
Brazil is reeling from catastrophic floods. What went wrong – and what does the future hold?
‘No alternative’: EU climate chief urges MEPs not to use crisis as political tool.
Weather tracker: global average temperature highest ever for April.
Fixation on UK nuclear power may not help to solve climate crisis.
Mass planting of marsh violets key to saving rare UK butterfly, says National Trust.
‘I am starting to panic about my child’s future’: climate scientists wary of starting families.
UK farmers consider quitting after extreme wet weather and low profits.
Record-breaking increase in CO2 levels in world’s atmosphere.
I understand climate scientists’ despair – but stubborn optimism may be our only hope.
‘The stakes could not be higher’: world is on edge of climate abyss, UN warns.
What are the most powerful climate actions you can take? The expert view.
Ice dives, walrus snaps and whale encounters: the man telling extreme stories of an Arctic at risk.
Vermont poised to become first US state to charge big oil for climate damage.
Labor’s strategy is to reduce emissions from gas – but not if that means doing anything to cut its use.
Labor’s gas strategy: what is it and why do critics call it ‘Back to the Future’?
Biodiversity loss is biggest driver of infectious disease outbreaks, says study.
I weep for the corals, but what I saw on the Great Barrier Reef gives me hope.
Tourist boom threatens to swamp Indian mountain town where Dalai Lama took refuge.
Global heating could raise potential for offshore wind power, study says.
Australia may delay release of 2035 climate target as world awaits outcome of US election.
A cool flame: how Gaia theory was born out of a secret love affair.
Can Australia reach net zero by 2050? A new reports shows it must be ‘the new normal’.
‘Dangerously hot’ weather roasts US west as brutal summer continues.
Phoenix, Arizona, hits its 100th consecutive day of 100F weather.
Australia’s weather mood swings and the climate crisis – Full Story podcast.
Constantine Arch in Rome damaged by lightning during violent storm.
Europe’s farming lobbies recognise need to eat less meat in shared vision report.
Physicist MV Ramana on the problem with nuclear power.
Fire services warn of likely early start to Australia’s bushfire season.
‘Typhoons have prevented me going to school’: The children behind South Korea’s landmark climate win.
Let’s be honest: Australia’s claim to have cut climate pollution isn’t as good as it seems.
Charley says … the climate is right for green public information films.
Re-emergence of Greece’s sunken village shows extent of rainfall crisis.
The bitter future of chocolate? How drought and a youth exodus threaten Mexico’s prized cocoa.
UK’s methane hotspots include landfills and last coalmine.
Japan swelters through hottest summer while parts of China log warmest August on record.
Arctic tern and common gull join red list of UK species in crisis.
‘We need more shade’: US’s hottest city turns to trees to cool those most in need.
Billions more in overseas aid needed to avert climate disaster, say economists.
Queensland state LNP backs Labor’s emission cuts of 75% by 2035 drawing ire from federal colleagues.
Flash flooding in Oman and UAE hit by heaviest rainfall in 75 years .
Albanese’s promised clean economy act has been a long time coming but it’s the right place to start.
No birdsong, no water in the creek, no beating wings: how a haven for nature fell silent.
UK facing food shortages and price rises after extreme weather.
Which UK foods are at risk as extreme weather causes havoc with global supplies?
Aerial video shows mass coral bleaching on Great Barrier Reef amid global heat stress event.
Can millennials unscrew themselves? Part 5.
Climate crisis increasing frequency of deadly ocean upwells, study finds.
Global heating pushes coral reefs towards worst planet-wide mass bleaching on record.
How Swiss women won a landmark climate case for Europe.
‘Grownup’ leaders are pushing us towards catastrophe, says former US climate chief.
How to spot five of the fossil fuel industry’s biggest disinformation tactics.
Jail for holding a placard? Protest over the climate crisis is being brutally suppressed.
Rope-entangled right whale spotted off coast of New England.
Strasbourg court’s Swiss climate ruling could have global impact, say experts.
Shell says it ‘lobbies for energy transition’ during climate ruling appeal.
Weather tracker: Europe’s heatwave sends temperature records tumbling.
A planet in peril and our embrace of Big Brother: George Orwell would have been shocked.
Foetus fronts legal challenge over emissions in South Korea.
California’s largest reservoirs at critically low levels – signaling a dry summer ahead.
Chinese premier calls for more coal production as electricity demand soars.
I never thought I could face arrest and imprisonment campaigning for climate action.
‘A deadly combination’: excessive heat adds to Arizona opioid epidemic’s toll.
There’s a simple way to unite everyone behind climate justice – and it’s within our power.
Forget Me Not by Sophie Pavelle review – a fan letter to Britain’s unsung species.
Sussan Ley backs Peter Dutton’s decision to oppose emissions legislation but signals future room for change.
Livestock farmers are not the enemy in climate crisis battle.
Climate justice groups join British rail strike picket lines.
‘It stays mind-blowing’: Billie Eilish’s mum on her daughter making Glastonbury history.
‘Pretty damn cool’: Ellie Goulding on rewilding as a cure for our planet – and our mental health.
Australian farmers warn PM not to rush into Biden’s global methane pledge.
Heatwaves pushing up demand for air conditioning in UK.
Why is Australia so cold right now despite global heating?
Los Angeles may ban new gas stations to help combat climate emergency.
The Paris-sized blind spot in the Coalition’s climate target debate.
Greens MP calls for inquiry into botched NSW police operation against Blockade Australia.
Forbidden fungi: why mushrooms have been banished from National Trust menus.
‘Red alert’: last year was hottest on record by clear margin, says UN report.
46C summer days and ‘supercell’ storms are Britain’s future – and now is our last chance to prepare.
Court ruling erodes climate activists’ ability to defend themselves – as the planet heats up.
Forget nuclear: would Peter Dutton oppose a plan to cut bills and address the climate crisis?
Sunak and ministers stoking division over UK’s net zero target, warns Ed Miliband.
‘Bewildering’ to omit meat-eating reduction from UN climate plan.
UK heat pump rollout criticised as too slow by public spending watchdog.
Banks driving increase in global meat and dairy production, report finds.
Massachusetts town grapples with sea rise after sand barrier fails.
The Phoenix, Lewes: a new riverside neighbourhood that sounds almost too good to be true.
The key to happiness is equality.
Tuvalu prime minister calls on Australia for sovereignty ‘guarantees’ over treaty.
Climate activists across Europe block access to North Sea oil infrastructure.
The Bee Sting’s Paul Murray: ‘Climate worry is the unavoidable background for being alive in the 21st century’.
Hidden giants: how the UK’s 500,000 redwoods put California in the shade.
Scientists divided over whether record heat is acceleration of climate crisis.
UK doctors involved in climate protests face threat of being struck off.
Bull sharks thriving off Alabama despite rising sea temperatures, study says.
UK company directors may be liable for climate impacts, say lawyers.
Hope for coral reefs after IVF colonies survive record heat event – study.
Australia is a mess. Cop31 is a chance to redefine ourselves from climate laggard to global leader.
Global heating is making El Niño and La Niña forecasts less reliable, BoM says.
Climate Change Authority determined incoming chair Matt Kean had no conflict of interest despite advisory role.
Floods in Poland and wildfires in Portugal show reality of climate breakdown, says EU.
Wildfires rage across Portugal.
More floods are coming to Britain, but you ought to know this: the system that should protect us is a scandal.
Superyacht and private jet tax could raise £2bn a year, say campaigners.
More than £494bn subsidies a year in developing world harmful to climate, says report.
‘We empower ourselves’: the women cleaning up Bolivia’s Lake Uru Uru.
Global spending on subsidies that harm environment rises to $2.6tn, report says.
Fossil fuel companies sponsor $5.6bn in global ‘sportswashing’ deals.
Man accused of arson in devastating California wildfire pleads not guilty.
Ed Davey says Liberal Democrats will be ‘responsible opposition’ to Labour.
Portugal wildfire deaths rise to seven after firefighters trapped in blaze.
Spanish Socialist Teresa Ribera gets top EU role steering climate and antitrust policy.
Lammy’s Kew speech seeks to put UK at centre of a reinvigorated climate fight.
People evacuated via helicopters after catastrophic flooding in central Europe.
Biden’s green policies will save 200,000 lives and have boosted clean energy jobs, data shows.
A beacon of hope: SA’s renewable revolution – Full Story podcast.
More than 1,000 climate scientists urge public to become activists.
Cop28 president forced into defence of fossil fuel phase-out claims.
The Cop28 president told a shocking lie about fossil fuels – and he’s wrong about climate economics too.
The secret plan to ‘hook’ the developing world on oil – Full Story podcast.
Australia urged not to rely on ‘drug dealer’s defence’ for gas exports and help wean Japan off fossil fuels.
Coalition to have sizeable contingent at Cop28 despite Peter Dutton jibe at climate change minister’s attendance.
Warning: the UK government’s hydrogen plan isn’t green at all, it’s another oil industry swindle.
The Roman forts near Hadrian’s Wall are full of historical riches – and the climate crisis is destroying them.
UK would be a climate leader again under Labour, vows Starmer.
My generation can’t wait any longer for climate action – and Europe could hold the key.
Cop28! No prizes for guessing how it is turning out.
Chris Packham launches legal challenge over UK’s watering down of climate policies.
The Guardian view on a non-proliferation treaty: fossil fuels are weapons of mass destruction.
Cop28: UAE climate chief’s comments ‘incredibly concerning’.
Net zero policy for new gas projects abandoned after industry objected.
A knife-edge quest: Lord of the Rings resonates at Cop28 climate summit.
Cop28 president says there is ‘no science’ behind demands for phase-out of fossil fuels.
Australia backs Cop28 promise to triple renewables but not nuclear capacity pledge.
Rishi Sunak accused of hypocrisy after backing phase-out of fossil fuels at Cop28.
Extreme weather could shut down one in 12 hospitals worldwide, report warns.
How a top US business lobby promised climate action – but worked to block efforts.
Nomad Century: How to Survive the Climate Upheaval review – humanity on the move.
No watering required: a drought-resistant garden for a changing climate.
Bank Australia to ditch fossil fuel car loans in push for EV future.
The Guardian view on rare earths: mining them can’t cost the Earth.
The Church of England is on board in pursuit of a net zero world.
More than half of UK lightning strikes this year have occurred since Sunday.
At least 38 people killed as ‘tornado of fire’ rages in northern Algeria.
‘We got too comfortable’: the race to build an LNG terminal in north Germany.
Master of all trades: retrofit firm tackles climate and cost of living crises.
The floods tell us the river is sick. We should listen to Indigenous knowledge to help Country heal.
Couple draw giant 4,500-mile GPS bicycle across Europe.
Why we drew 600-mile long picture of a bicycle across Europe.
Lack of accurate car emissions data is hindering uptake of EVs in Australia, experts warn.
Truss and Sunak are promising sunshine without rain – don’t believe them.
Climate stress can give bumblebees asymmetrical wings, study finds.
China deploys cloud-seeding planes and cuts electricity use as record heatwave takes toll.
At least 26 killed and dozens injured by forest fires in northern Algeria.
California urges residents to cut power use as searing heatwave grips US west.
Doctors for Extinction Rebellion’s protest puts MCC deals in spotlight.
Investors push Glencore to scrap spin-off of heavily polluting coal division.
For those with power and rich donors – the AC is always on, even if it’s melting outside.
Democrats’ VP pick Tim Walz welcomed as climate champion by green advocates.
UK failing to monitor apparently falling wasp populations, expert warns.
‘I turned into a solar nerd’: money and fun were the unexpected benefits of installing panels.
Weather and a changing world — not large corporations — behind downturn in Australia’s live music scene, inquiry hears.
Western Australia’s EPA has made a big call on a major gas expansion. Will state and federal governments back it up?
‘It made me cry’: photos taken 15 years apart show melting Swiss glaciers.
Harris helped pass one of the strongest climate laws. Her policies don’t stop there.
Climate change deniers make up nearly a quarter of US Congress.
The Last Human review – despair and hope for Greenland youth in crosshairs of climate peril.
Cooler weather helps fire crews corral a third of California’s largest blaze of year.
Large English vineyards mark boom year as output and investment soar.
How dumpster diving went from taboo to trendy: ‘It’s a treasure hunt’.
‘The Adriatic is becoming tropical’: Italian fishers struggle to adapt to warm sea.
Judith Rattenbury obituary.
I swear by almighty river: an ancient practice is making a comeback in Britain’s courts.
How readers stay cool in a heatwave – when air conditioning isn’t enough.
‘This is climate change’: Scottish beach eroding by 7 metres a year.
‘Building something better’: the UK residents retrofitting their homes amid the climate crisis.
How bad will flooding get by 2100? These AI images show US destinations underwater.
Smokey air, nonstop nosebleeds. Life as a warehouse worker in a heatwave: ‘Products matter more than people’.
‘It used to be a farm – now it’s a mall’: how El Salvador’s crisis-hit coffee producers are trying to adapt.
Wildfires are burning through humanity’s carbon budget, study shows.
Africa’s small-scale revolution against big agriculture: five farmers talk greener, better food.
Former EU environment chief hits out at plans to delay anti-deforestation law.
Nature in England at risk as amount of land ‘effectively protected’ falls to 2.93%.
French AI summit to focus on environmental impact of energy-hungry tech.
Trip on psychedelics, save the planet: the offbeat solution to the climate crisis.
Plibersek’s coalmine decision is double trouble for climate and housing.
Tim Winton: ‘I lived in the worst possible space for seven years. It knocks some paint off you, I can tell you’.
WA Labor government accused of shelving climate laws as emissions continue to rise.
Days of the jackal: Canis aureus makes sudden tracks into western Europe.
Fact-checking the US vice-presidential debate: abortion, immigration, climate and more.
San Francisco sees hottest day of 2024 as heatwave scorches US south-west.
More than 150 dead after Hurricane Helene dumps over 40tn gallons of rain.
Private equity firms ploughing billions into fossil fuels, analysis reveals.
No water, no shade. Life as a roofer in the sweltering Florida heat: ‘It feels like 120F’.
As the waters rise, a two-year sentence for throwing soup. That’s the farcical reality of British justice.
‘Nowhere is safe’: shattered Asheville shows stunning reach of climate crisis.
Pakistan floods cause devastation.
Environmentalist Elizabeth Wathuti: ‘Perhaps I had something President Biden really needed to hear’.
Rain eases China’s record heatwave but fresh energy crisis looms.
Seven-star energy efficiency ratings are a solid step – now we need to retrofit existing Australian homes.
‘Monster monsoon’: why the floods in Pakistan are so devastating.
The Guardian view on climate chaos in Pakistan: adapt to survive.
Green Tories back Johnson’s call for successor to invest in renewables.
Scientists call on colleagues to protest climate crisis with civil disobedience.
Major sea-level rise caused by melting of Greenland ice cap is ‘now inevitable’.
Artist with synaesthesia puts Greta Thunberg’s Davos speech on canvas.
‘It took everything’: the disease that can be contracted by breathing California’s air.
Pakistan floods: plea for help amid fears monsoon could put a third of country underwater.
Irish farmers say they will be forced to cull cows to meet climate targets.
The century of climate migration: why we need to plan for the great upheaval.
Labor is sending mixed messages on energy – and some of it sounds like climate denial.
The Guardian view on this false autumn: an uncanny beauty.
Pakistan declares floods a ‘climate catastrophe’ as death toll tops 1,000.
Scientists set for ocean crisis debate 150 years after ‘extraordinary’ expedition.
England’s gardeners to be banned from using peat-based compost.
The ‘disappearance’ of Agatha Christie, Marina Hyde on the sewage scandal, animal emotions.
A Cold Spell by Max Leonard review – from cube to crisis.
Don’t blame the trees! Saving forests is still the best way to save the planet.
Environmental campaigners filmed, threatened and harassed at Cop28.
The year the world labelled fossil fuels as the problem – Full Story podcast.
The Guardian view on the EU at a crossroads: time for new economic thinking.
‘Not conducive to our survival’: Pacific islands on the climate frontline respond to Cop28 deal.
A battle for interpretation of the Cop28 deal on a fossil fuel phase-out.
Joe Biden plans to ban logging in US old-growth forests in 2025.
‘I thought we had more time’: how motherhood spurred a New Yorker’s fight against fossil fuels.
Australia's 2023 in review: the stories that shook the nation.
Is the US going to approve the single biggest fossil-fuel expansion on earth?
You can’t make a net-zero Australia on a gas cooktop.
Forget Cop – local climate action can bring more tangible results.
XR co-founder who broke window at HS2 protest given suspended sentence.
Printable DNA to bird-bashing towers: 15 looming issues for biodiversity in 2024.
Cyclone Jasper: how did it cause so much rain and could global heating be to blame?
I used to fly around the world in all-expenses-paid luxury – but I couldn’t face my conscience.
The cartoons First Dog on the Moon wanted to do this year but didn’t for various reasons.
Cop28 has finally named fossil fuels as the climate problem. But do leaders have the will to act?
‘So these are the people I’ll die with’: one nervous flyer on the terrifying rise in turbulence.
Europe burns while the Tories’ net zero plans are set to go up in smoke.
Rishi Sunak and Keir Starmer should take courage from Joe Biden – green energy for all is the only way forward.
Doom busters: why some things aren’t (quite) as bad as we think.
Our politicians are cowards on the environment.
Grape varieties to beat the heat.
Brexit meets global boiling – cartoon.
The cost of living crisis can only be beaten by tackling the climate crisis.
Greece wildfires under control but strong winds still a threat, say officials.
Nature groups prepared to ‘mobilise’ 20m members over UK climate policy.
Air conditioning: the benefits, problems and alternatives.
‘I realise how serious it is’: voters in England support action on climate crisis.
Rail electrification plans fall far short of UK net zero targets, data shows.
‘This is another beast’: UN chief heat officer on living amid fires, how to cool cities and fears for her daughter.
‘Something weird is going on’: search for answers as Antarctic sea ice stays at historic lows.
Digested week: Forget the climate crisis – re-election is Sunak’s only burning issue.
Yes, Aliens exist … and they’re not impressed.
Federal government under fire for hiring KPMG on health and climate while firm advises fossil fuels.
Blistering US heatwave spreads from south and scorches 190m Americans.
Body of hiker missing since 1986 found near Matterhorn.
In 10 years Australia went from Abbott to Albanese – but how much has really changed?
The Observer view on Rishi Sunak’s net zero backtrack: a cynical ploy that won’t play with voters.
Keir Starmer to call for UK clean energy action in New York City address.
Watering down the UK’s net zero strategy may backfire for Rishi Sunak.
‘The worst kind of culture war’: Tories attack Rishi Sunak’s reversal on net zero.
‘The climate is visiting a mental unravelling on all of us’: Charlie Hertzog Young on the dangers of activism – and staying sane on a dying planet.
My neighbour tore down the hedge outside our window – and I learned what ‘solastalgia’ feels like.
UK one of 32 countries facing European court action over climate stance.
‘Climate villain’: scientists say Rupert Murdoch wielded his media empire to sow confusion and doubt.
Only 22% of Britons trust Sunak on climate, finds Guardian poll.
Eliminate malaria once and for all or it will come back stronger, UN warned.
Rishi Sunak urged to stop attacking Climate Change Committee.
Climate karma: do we have a hope in hell?
Wildfires turn Canada’s vast forests from carbon sink into super-emitter.
Sunak’s net zero U-turn will hurt those he says he wants to help – Labour must stand up for them.
The rock’s the star: meditative film about a Cornish stone goes global.
Junking green policies, junking investment: scorched-earth Conservatism is all Sunak offers now.
UK firefighters go to Spain for wildfire training as number of blazes surges.
Global push for clean hydrogen foiled by costs and lack of support, report finds.
Fireproof Australia: who are the radical Extinction Rebellion splinter group?
As a science journalist I’m reconsidering having kids. I’m not the only one.
Dozens hospitalised as Iraq engulfed by dust storm.
Extinction Rebellion stages mass protest in central London.
Why ‘eco-conscious’ fashion brands can continue to increase emissions.
‘This is an emergency’: Australia’s extreme weather crises spark anger at climate inaction.
Plan to ban dark roofs abandoned as NSW government walks back sustainability measures.
Latest IPCC report offers key lessons for Australia but is anyone listening?
Land swaps, relocations or rebuilds: Lismore community grapples with its future.
Methane in Earth’s atmosphere rose by record amount last year, US government data shows.
I was targeted by Murdoch-owned media for supporting independent candidates and their climate agendas.
Seize all superyachts to save the climate.
Johnson’s energy security strategy won’t bring down our eye-watering heating bills.
I test-drove the all-electric Hummer. Can it win over America’s EV skeptics?
Is the world’s most important climate legislation about to die in US Congress?
‘It’s happening now’: how rising sea levels are causing a US migration crisis.
‘Learning to live with it’? From Covid to climate breakdown, it’s the new way of failing.
Climate change is our greatest health challenge – we must act to protect future generations.
Scott Morrison caves in to co-funding Queensland flood resilience package after fierce criticism.
Climate scientists are desperate: we’re crying, begging and getting arrested.
Climate change is intensifying Earth’s water cycle at twice the predicted rate, research shows.
A fifth of Australia’s fossil fuel facilities emit more greenhouse gas than originally estimated, report says.
Hot days lead to more mental health emergencies, study finds.
To Tory MPs seeking to derail the green agenda, I say watch out – we’re coming for you.
Wildfires likely to increase by a third by 2050, warns UN.
Antarctic sea ice falls to lowest level since measurements began in 1979.
AGL open to higher takeover bid but says Cannon-Brookes plan to close coal by 2030 is unrealistic.
Until airlines tackle the scourge of ‘ghost flights’, Britain will never reach net zero.
Almost 15,000 ‘ghost flights’ have left UK since pandemic began.
‘The Scheme’: a senator’s plan to highlight rightwing influence on the supreme court.
Will storms like Eunice become the norm?
Oxford University took at least £1.6m last year from fossil fuel firms.
Five ways AI is saving wildlife – from counting chimps to locating whales.
London flooding poses ‘significant risk’ unless immediate action taken.
Draughty window or door? Now it can be seen from space.
‘An almighty crash’ – battered Britain still reeling at the havoc wreaked by Storm Eunice.
‘A train wreck’: what happens to workers and towns when the lights go out on coal power?
How bad is Storm Eunice – and is it a result of climate breakdown?
The great greenwashing scam: PR firms face reckoning after spinning for big oil.
Bitcoin miners revived a dying coal plant – then CO2 emissions soared.
Campaign catchup: why is the Coalition risking a new ‘carbon tax’ scare campaign?
Droughts in Somalia are partly our fault. We could at least let more migrants in.
New Zealand unveils plan to tackle climate crisis by adapting cities to survive rising seas.
There’s a lot going on so happy World Tapir Day to all the tapirs and tapir enthusiasts!.
Parched southern California takes unprecedented step of restricting outdoor watering.
The rise of the teal independents and the battle for Wentworth.
Janjaweed militia blamed for attacks that left at least 200 dead in Darfur.
Matt Canavan declares net zero by 2050 is ‘all over bar the shouting’ after PM tries to quell divisions.
Scott Morrison is setting up another fake fight on a carbon ‘tax’.
First Nations challenge over approval of Clive Palmer’s coalmine begins in Queensland.
Global disasters are coming harder and faster. Here’s how we can cut the risks.
Too many new coal-fired plants planned for 1.5C climate goal, report concludes.
The Labor and Coalition plans for Australia’s energy future.
Seven tired old tropes politicians trot out in place of a vision for Australia’s future.
US climate activist dies after setting himself on fire outside supreme court.
Tories could lose 1.3m voters if net zero target ditched, says poll.
US gas prices are over $4 a gallon. These oil CEOs took home over $20m.
How bad do things have to get in Britain before we start to see solidarity emerge?
‘The tuber man of Kerala’ on a quest to champion India’s rare and indigenous crops.
Coalition candidate says net zero by 2050 is a ‘flexible plan that leaves us wiggle room’.
Macron launches ‘ecological plan’ to cut France’s dependency on fossil fuels.
Abolishing HS2 and inheritance tax? Rish! would not speculate on speculation he started.
‘Whatever it takes’: students at 50 US high schools launch climate initiative.
‘Supercontinent’ could make Earth uninhabitable in 250m years, study predicts.
Indigenous women are showing us how to fight for environmental and human rights.
Introducing Southern Frontlines – news on the climate crisis from Latin America and the Caribbean.
Labour to stand firm on net zero policies and attack cost of Tory retreat.
Petrostate windfall tax would help poor countries in climate crisis, says Brown.
How do we raise trillions of dollars to fight the climate crisis? The answer is staring us in the face.
Net zero delaying tactics expose Rishi Sunak’s desperation.
What’s in your go bag for the apocalypse?
American football season is getting hotter. Young players are dying.
Why Tories are using cars as a political dividing line in the UK.
How Germany, France and Italy compare on net zero emission targets.
Alok Sharma challenges Rishi Sunak: show us how UK can meet green pledges.
Job for Australian ex-PM fuels fears over direction of Murdoch media empire under son Lachlan.
Net zero, housing, HS2… all delayed. In modern Britain, short-termism rules.
‘Imagine Westminster under water’: stricter tests needed to see how City copes with climate disasters.
‘This can only end badly’: Tories fear Sunak policy blitz is bound to fail.
Plantwatch: many of Scotland’s arctic-alpine plants on brink of extinction.
Less than half of annual tree-planting target in England met, say MPs.
Phoenix breaks heat record with 19th day of temperatures at 110F or higher.
Extreme weather live: Phoenix breaks record with 19th day of 110F highs in a row; Europe swelters under heatwave.
The Guardian view on Europe’s heatwaves: warnings from Hades.
Labour has to be more than simply the anti-Tory party.
Italian hospitals report sharp rise in emergency cases as Rome hits 41.8C.
What do the ‘supercharged’ northern hemisphere heatwaves mean for the Australian summer?
Tell us: have you been affected by wildfires in Greece?
Police evacuate Swiss mountain villages as wildfires spread.
Greece wildfires: drone footage shows scale of destruction.
Wildfire rips through California valley as seen in timelapse video.
Consider the heatwave and floods: can we still save the planet for our children? I think we can.
Pascal Soriot of AstraZeneca: ‘The climate crisis is a health crisis’.
Extreme heat and weather around the world.
Peter Dutton ‘the alternative PM from the alt-right’ heading Coalition’s ‘cabal of climate denial’, Chris Bowen claims.
John Kerry aims to put China tensions aside at crucial climate talks.
Extreme heatwave live: Texas city confirms first heat death; northern hemisphere boils in severe weather.
Olive oil industry in crisis as Europe’s heatwave threatens another harvest.
Extreme temperatures recorded across northern hemisphere.
Will closing Australia’s biggest coal-fired power station early really cost thousands of jobs?
NSW deputy premier savaged for fighting dam-building ‘culture war’ during floods disaster.
This time the United Nations are trying something different in the face of global annihilation.
Terrawatch: how carbon-eating rocks could help fight climate crisis.
Brisbane and Lismore residents return to debris and mud-filled homes.
Lismore businesses that couldn’t afford insurance premiums face huge flood damage bills.
‘A strange phenomenon’: new island in Papua New Guinea prompts territorial dispute.
IPCC paints a grim picture, but it’s still not too late to act.
Bees can play soccer – 10 little-known facts about insects.
Is the UK government finally seeing sense on renewables?
California debates naming heatwaves to underscore deadly risk of extreme heat.
How do we force our leaders to lead and ourselves to take action in the face of multiple crises?
Act now: understanding the latest warnings in the IPCC report.
Gang-gang cockatoo to become threatened species after large drop in bird numbers.
In Lismore, this is more than a flood, it is a catastrophe – and I am still praying we will be saved.
Smoke from Black Summer bushfires depleted ozone layer, study finds.
The Guardian view on the IPCC report: inaction has cost the world dearly.
The IPCC climate report is grim – but there is still room for hope.
As extreme weather ravages the Pacific, there is much to do and no time to waste.
Migrant workers toil in perilous heat to prepare for Cop28 climate talks in UAE.
Country diary: Towering achievements in no ordinary woodland.
Climate activists force Fed chair Jerome Powell off stage in New York.
Australia breaches WHO treaty with carbon neutral certification of big tobacco company.
‘You should be able to have a water break’: US workers fight for extreme-heat rules.
Greta Thunberg joins second climate protest in London this week.
‘Very disturbing’: crackdown on oil pipeline protests in Uganda concerns UN rights expert.
Antarctica is warming fast - so why is the response so cool?
Australia is already an energy superpower. We should be using that to drive the world towards renewables.
‘Steve Bannon is watching us closely’: Naomi Klein on populists, conspiracists and real-world activism.
Will the Earth breach its 1.5C guardrail sooner than we thought?
Trapped as fire raged: deadly perils in Mexico for migrants escaping climate catastrophe.
Drought turns Amazonian capital into climate dystopia.
Colombia and Mali leading efforts to improve air quality, new ranking finds.
As US wildfires pollute the skies, a loophole is obscuring the impact. Can it be fixed?
‘Vaca Muerta was the future’: Argentina goes all in on fracking.
Definitions changing in UK’s bid to meet climate finance target.
Australia must urgently adapt to extreme weather or face soaring premiums, insurers warn.
In Detroit, a ‘magic wand’ makes dirty air look clean – and lets polluters off the hook.
Malawi swelters in record heat with temperatures nearly 20C above average.
Climate campaigners take South Africa to court over coal policy.
US cities working to reduce emissions in the absence of bold action in Washington.
18,000 people stranded after floods and landslides in British Columbia.
Wanted: 100,000 pioneers for a green jobs Klondike in the Arctic.
Pollutionwatch: the double benefit of cutting methane emissions.
Canada floods: 18,000 people still stranded in ‘terrible, terrible disaster’.
Rich countries must pay up to keep 1.5C alive.
Revealed: the places humanity must not destroy to avoid climate chaos.
No country has met welfare goals in past 30 years ‘without putting planet at risk’.
Sturgeon urged to commit to end oil and gas production in Scotland.
Climate-vulnerable countries call for help forcing high emitters to act.
The moral case for destroying fossil fuel infrastructure.
‘We are struggling’: US mountain states battle wildfires despite impending winter.
How bad is the British Columbia and Pacific north-west flooding and what caused it?
The forgotten oil ads that told us climate change was nothing.
Young people more optimistic about the world than older generations – Unicef.
Ten ways to confront the climate crisis without losing hope.
‘Journalists are PR department of Greenpeace’: Andrew Neil on climate crisis.
Green hydrogen beats blue on emissions and financial cost, Australian study finds.
EU aims to curb deforestation with beef and coffee import ban.
High-carbon goods imported to UK should be subject to new tariffs, say MPs.
Scientists urge end to fossil fuel use as landmark IPCC report readied.
Primatologist Alison Richard: ‘Madagascar is a floating evolutionary laboratory’.
Dire warning on climate change ‘is being ignored’ amid war and economic turmoil.
Leading the charge: road-testing Australia’s EV stations on a 2,800km round trip – Guardian Australia Reads podcast.
The hope and climate catastrophe roadshow: ‘there’s just this thirst for optimistic story’.
Protesters continue to block UK oil terminals despite more than 100 arrests.
Your life is under threat. You might have to run any second. What do you take?
NSW protest bill leaves Labor wedged between a roadblock and a hard place.
Lismore residents’ flood response was a DIY model of emergency management.
Our political consensus is built on lies and fear.
Religion is here to stay – but it must evolve to meet our needs.
Just Stop Oil and XR protesters block UK refineries.
Inside Just Stop Oil, the youth climate group blocking UK refineries.
Labor helps pass NSW bill targeting road-blocking protesters despite union opposition.
‘Unfathomable’: Narrabri coalmine expansion gets final approval from NSW planning commission.
Europe faces a future of extreme droughts.
NSW Labor MPs uneasy about party’s support for bill aimed at road-blocking protests.
‘Graveyard of corals’ found after extreme heat and cyclones hit northern Great Barrier Reef.
Let’s not waste another summer debating climate science – Australia’s energy transition can work for everyone.
Cop29: ‘We’re here for life and death reasons,’ says ex-climate minister of Pakistan.
Making homes greener isn’t nanny-statism.
Cop29: ministers told to ‘cut theatrics’, ‘move faster’ and ‘get down to business’ amid growing frustration at slow progress.
Cop29 delegates told to ‘cut the theatrics’ and tackle climate crisis.
Countries could use nature to ‘cheat’ on net zero targets, scientists warn.
How Trump 2.0 might affect the wildfire crisis: ‘The harms will be more lasting’.
Cop29: US Democrats put on brave face as Republicans talk up cheap energy.
Guardian Essential poll: almost half of Australian voters want Aukus reviewed after Donald Trump’s election win.
Heat pump scheme for Edwardian social housing aims to bust low-carbon myths.
World’s 1.5C climate target ‘deader than a doornail’, experts say.
Climate crisis to blame for dozens of ‘impossible’ heatwaves, studies reveal.
How do we know that the climate crisis is to blame for extreme weather?
Be brave and impose minimum tax on world’s billionaires, urges Spanish minister.
Australia accused of ‘exporting climate destruction’ on tiny Pacific neighbours with massive gas expansion plans.
Juice by Tim Winton review – eloquent cry of a climate vigilante.
Greens drop climate trigger demand in attempt to restart Nature Positive talks with Labor.
Countries must set aside differences and agree climate finance deal, says Cop29 negotiator.
The Observer view: the Cop summit is foundering, we need urgent action not more hot air.
TechScape: will posting your pet pics online really save the planet?
Casey Harrell: the climate activist taking on Wall Street – and the muscle-wasting disease that’s killing him.
Dark roofs to be banned in NSW, planning minister says.
Scott Morrison’s ‘can-do capitalism’ is a hypocritical example of ‘do nothing’ leadership.
Blockade Australia: anti-coal activists vow more disruption despite warnings of 25-year jail sentences.
Neoliberalism wrecked our chance to fix the climate crisis – and leftwing statements of faith have changed nothing.
‘A tipping point’: how poor forestry fuels floods and fires in western Canada.
Coastal defences need $30bn boost to prevent Australian homes becoming uninhabitable.
Al Gore ‘disappointed’ Scott Morrison didn’t cut Australia’s 2030 emissions target.
The Cop26 message? We are trusting big business, not states, to fix the climate crisis.
‘Farmers are digging their own graves’: true cost of growing food in Spain’s arid south.
‘A death sentence’: Indigenous climate activists denounce Cop26 deal.
Global heating is destroying rock art tens of thousands of years old, experts warn.
Biden-Xi virtual summit: Biden says US and China must 'not veer into conflict'.
Record rainfall prompts evacuations in British Columbia and Pacific north-west.
What did Cop26 actually achieve? The hope and heartache from Glasgow.
Climate leaders call for pressure on stubborn nations before Cop27.
Writing the wrongs of the climate crisis.
‘Ultimately uninhabitable’: western Sydney’s legacy of planning failure.
Cop26 inside and out: politics and protest in Glasgow.
Climate groups launch national tour for Green New Deal.
Jim Ratcliffe, Manchester United and the myth of the spotless billionaire.
Extinction Rebellion co-founder guilty of breaking window at HS2 protest.
Extreme heat caused three in four weather-related hospitalisations in Australia over past decade, data shows.
King Charles to give opening address at Cop28 climate summit.
Former Australian PM Tony Abbott says climate warnings are ‘ahistorical and implausible’.
Claimants take UK government to court over inadequate climate adaptation.
‘A titan of the climate movement’: tributes pour in for Saleemul Huq.
Republicans welcome local benefits of climate law despite voting against it.
In 2023 we’ve seen climate destruction in real time, yet rich countries are poised to do little at Cop28.
Cigarette-style climate warnings on food could cut meat consumption, study suggests.
Baltic Sea faces ‘critical challenges’ on climate and biodiversity, report warns.
The ‘flickering’ of Earth systems is warning us: act now, or see our already degraded paradise lost.
Pittsburgh in ‘extreme embrace’ with fossil fuel lobbyists, research finds.
‘For us, the Amazon isn’t a cause, it’s our home’: the riverside communities stranded by the climate crisis.
The right is firing misinformation bullets in its climate war on renewables – here’s a way to fight back.
Deforestation has big impact on regional temperatures, study of Brazilian Amazon shows.
Climate crisis: carbon emissions budget is now tiny, scientists say.
Malawi battles outbreak of scabies that health experts link to climate crisis.
Guardian Essential poll: most voters don’t believe Australia will meet Labor’s net zero by 2050 target.
Cities need to be redesigned for the climate crisis. Can they make us happy, too?
A drowning world: Kenya’s quiet slide underwater.
Property developers fight NSW bid to make houses more energy-efficient and climate-resilient.
A new milestone of coral bleaching for the Great Barrier Reef.
Insurers could have been climate heroes. Instead, they have risked a crisis to dwarf 2008.
How does a newt cross the road? The teams trying to end a nightly carnage.
Sold out: why Australia doesn’t have enough electric vehicles to go around.
Chile’s archaeologists fight to save the world’s oldest mummies from climate change.
What caused the damage to Essex’s lovely Mersea Island.
The Guardian view on record-breaking Arctic temperatures: do look up.
Climate action has been ‘a calamity’, says Senate Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse.
Sir Chris Hohn urges shareholders to vote against ‘greenwashing’ bank directors.
Great Barrier Reef hit by sixth coral bleaching event.
Many bird species nesting and laying eggs nearly a month early, study says.
Great Barrier Reef authority confirms unprecedented sixth mass coral bleaching event.
Satellite data shows entire Conger ice shelf has collapsed in Antarctica.
Labor promises review of Australia’s carbon credit system after allegations it is ‘largely a sham’.
Russian and Ukrainian activists call for European embargo on Russian fossil fuels.
‘Climate smart’ policies could increase southern Africa’s crops by up to 500%.
‘Capitalism incarnate’: inside the secret world of McKinsey, the firm hooked on fossil fuels.
The Long Wave: Unearthing the real story of Black voters at the US election.
Share your experience of lightning strikes in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Blackouts, explosions, deaths: why the Caribbean is waking up to the increased threat of lightning.
Almost 120 countries vowed to triple renewables by 2030 – how is it going?
The climate crisis in charts: how 2024 has set unwanted new records.
‘Bomb cyclone’ brings high winds and soaking rain to north-west US.
Why children like me have a right to be heard at the People’s Blockade of the Newcastle coal port.
Australia pledges $50m for climate 'loss and damage' fund, ramps up Cop31 host bid.
Eight times more children will face extreme heatwaves by 2050s, Unicef says.
China and India should not be called developing countries, several Cop29 delegates say.
Why Cop summits and climate finance need reform.
Cop29 live: Slashing methane emissions is ‘our emergency brake’, UN says.
Paris agreement is working, Australian minister tells Cop29, but much deeper cuts needed by 2035.
The Guardian environment pledge 2024.
‘I’m imagining what my mother went through in her last seconds’ – This is climate breakdown.
What we’ve learned in the five years since our first environment pledge.
Hundreds of lobbyists for industrial farming attend Cop29 climate summit.
Construction is the world’s biggest carbon emitter, yet Labour still refuses to tackle it.
New York issues first drought warning in 22 years as dry conditions persist.
US south-west bakes under potentially deadly record high temperatures.
Five arrested after climate protest at Ineos oil refinery in Scotland.
Europe might be nice this time of year but there is something about an Australian winter.
Firefighters battle California wildfires amid blistering heatwave.
‘I’ve never seen heat this bad. It’s not normal’: Italy struggles as temperature tops 40C.
Welsh steelworks at breaking point over the cost of cleaning up its act.
Acropolis closes to protect tourists as Greece faces unprecedented heatwave.
Wildfires, red alerts and attractions closed as heatwave sweeps southern Europe.
Florida rocked by home insurance crisis: ‘I may have to sell up and move’.
European heatwave: red alerts issued for 16 cities in Italy.
Reservoir supplying drinking water to Uruguay almost depleted.
With our food systems on the verge of collapse, it’s the plutocrats v life on Earth.
‘This feels exactly the right place to be’: Sir Patrick Vallance on pandemics, eco-anxiety and leading the Natural History Museum.
Foreign Office cannot say how many climate officials it has.
US west braces for fiercest temperatures yet as ‘supercharged’ heatwave arrives.
Just Stop Oil protesters disrupt BBC Proms at Royal Albert Hall.
As heat records break, the climate movement has the right answers – but the words are all wrong.
Trudeau pays tribute to firefighter, 19, killed battling Canada wildfires.
Sydney’s unseasonably warm weather set to stay as BoM continues ‘El Niño’ watch.
‘Traumatic loss’: Indigenous traditions hit by fruit scarcity, climate trial hears.
The sound ecologist capturing a disappearing world: ‘70% of habitats I recorded are gone’.
River in ‘wettest place in England’ in Lake District almost completely dry.
Germany coalition staves off implosion with 11th-hour heating law amendment.
Our Planet II review – so much of David Attenborough’s new show is just astonishing.
Shell drops target to cut oil production as CEO aims for higher profits.
‘I’m a prisoner in my own home,’ asthma sufferer, 15, tells landmark US climate trial.
Greta Thunberg: not phasing out fossil fuels is ‘death sentence’ for world’s poor.
It’s not the job of children to fix the climate crisis. We must show them grown-ups are leading the way.
‘Unsustainable’ for ADF to help with natural disasters and defend Australia, inquiry told.
Turkmenistan moves towards plugging massive methane leaks.
Whisper it, but the boom in plastic production could be about to come to a juddering halt.
The hunt for India's stolen children.
‘My life and my home’: young people start to testify at historic US climate trial.
UK heatwave prompts National Grid to fire up coal plant to meet aircon demand.
Tony Abbott and John Howard join Jordan Peterson-led group looking at ‘meaning of life’.
Be angry about the wildfire pollution – but be angry at the right people.
Young Montana residents bring climate change case to court for first time ever.
Hygge for the heat: Max Mara’s Scandi show signals shift in fashion zeitgeist.
Hot in Here review – bike-powered show tells the haunting human stories behind the climate crisis.
Countries have not yet agreed to put fossil fuel phase-out on Cop28 agenda.
UK government under fire for investing overseas aid in fossil fuel firms.
‘Absolute scandal’: UAE state oil firm able to read Cop28 climate summit emails.
The die is cast: petrol and diesel engines are dying. The electric age is inevitable.
England ‘4,700 years from building enough onshore windfarms’.
The Guardian view on Labour’s green prosperity plan: the right strategy for Britain.
Carbon capture and storage is ‘no free lunch’, warns climate chief.
Too late now to save Arctic summer ice, climate scientists find.
‘The change in pace is crazy’: AI boosts climate information translation drive.
Climate risks have made California uninsurable. When will we wake up?
Bureau of Meteorology puts Australia on ‘El Niño alert’.
Lord Deben backs Labour’s plan to halt new North Sea oil and gas drilling.
Rich countries with high greenhouse gas emissions could pay $170tn in climate reparations.
Countries must put aside national interests for climate crisis, UN says.
Sunak takes RAF chopper to Dover, just over an hour away by train.
Companies ‘greenhushing’ to avoid scrutiny of climate goals, Asic says.
What even is El Niño? To be honest nobody really understands or cares any more.
Ministers face legal challenge over cuts to walking and cycling investment in England.
Climate crisis: rich nations undermining work to help poor countries, research suggests.
Why electric cars win in the long run.
Vietnam records highest ever temperature of 44.1C.
Architect Yasmeen Lari: ‘The international colonial charity model will never work’.
‘Rimmed with fire’: rare butterfly genus named after Sauron in Lord of the Rings.
Climate scientists first laughed at a ‘bizarre’ campaign against the BoM – then came the harassment.
Central banks raising interest rates makes it harder to fight the climate crisis.
Blockade Australia protesters charged under Perrottet government crackdown receive only minor penalties.
HSBC investors reject plan to split bank in meeting disrupted by climate protest.
April Mediterranean heatwave ‘almost impossible’ without climate crisis.
Students occupy schools and universities across Europe in climate protest.
All too often, peaceful protests don’t make the headlines.
Floods and mudslides in Rwanda kill more than 100 people.
Melting glaciers in Alps threaten biodiversity of invertebrates, says study.
‘Peace of mind at last’: the Bangladeshi villagers digging their way out of the floods.
Fire and concrete: will France’s model of radical climate protest catch on?
Are French protesters more effective? Meet the ‘next level’ climate activists.
NT government accused of failing to address climate risks before approving Beetaloo Basin gas project.
What’s the weather like near the summit of Mount Everest?
Australia warned of ‘over-mining’ risk in race to secure minerals needed for clean energy.
Voting, not direct action, remains the best way to protest.
Climate protesters rework Spice Girls song to disrupt Barclays AGM.
'Barclays funds climate chaos': bank's AGM disrupted by climate protesters.
UN warns heat records could be broken as chance of El Niño rises.
Fungal attacks threaten global food supply, say experts.
‘I love misunderstood creatures’: Megan McCubbin on 20 species we must save – including humans.
Inside big beef’s climate messaging machine: confuse, defend and downplay.
Hot air: five climate myths pushed by the US beef industry.
Australia being unable to afford greater environmental protection is a government myth that refuses to die.
Next UN climate summit to consider health issues in depth for first time.
Many Europeans want climate action – but less so if it changes their lifestyle, shows poll.
The future is bleak: will the budget help young people?
‘Not just a problem of science’: how the environmental crisis is also cultural.
Does the UK really need to drill for more North Sea oil and gas?
Mutual bond endures but Canada at a crossroads as king’s coronation looms.
Biden is still not doing nearly enough about the climate crisis.
Generational crimes are being committed thick and fast. No wonder Australian kids don’t vote conservative.
Cop27: ‘All of you are war criminals’: activist disrupts Russia event at Cop27.
Climate backsliding fears and a rallying call: what happened on day eight at Cop27.
Just Stop Oil activists are an example to us all.
Cycle power and gender rights: days eight and nine at Cop27.
‘Stupid’ to equate climate concerns with being woke, says Zac Goldsmith.
‘A beautiful milestone’: coral grown in Great Barrier Reef nursery spawns for first time.
My suffragette grandmothers are now seen as heroes. Today’s climate protesters will be too.
India’s energy conundrum: committed to renewables but still expanding coal.
PM holds bilateral talks with Chinese president.
It should not be controversial to say a population of 8 billion will have a grave impact on the climate.
The Climate Book, created by Greta Thunberg review – an angry call for action.
‘In Delhi I can see the climate catastrophe unfolding before my eyes’.
Impose climate tax on fossil fuel giants, media groups urge.
The Guardian view on Cop27: this is no time for apathy or complacency.
Nationalism is the ideology of our age. No wonder the world is in crisis.
Many Australians look at the world and see it heading the wrong way. Is democracy no longer the faction of choice?
Methane emissions from 15 meat and dairy companies rival those of the EU.
Limit of 1.5C global heating is at risk, Alok Sharma warns at Cop27.
Climate-focused reform of World Bank could be done in a year, says Al Gore.
Delegates and demonstrators: the weekend and Monday at Cop27.
Global deforestation pledge will be missed without urgent action, say researchers.
Climate change activists throw mashed potato at Monet painting.
The Contingency Plan review – climate-crisis dramas on a human scale.
CSIRO aims to ‘accelerate commercialism’ in new strategy as staff decry scientific diversion.
Law governing Bureau of Meteorology must change to reflect climate crisis, says former chief.
Victoria deserves praise for promising a rapid shift from coal to renewables. Now comes the hard part.
Climate crisis poses ‘growing threat’ to health in UK, says expert.
Netball Australia boss says sport must balance ‘social conversations’ with ‘commercial realities’.
Bureau of Meteorology was ‘cowering in the corner’ on climate crisis, former staff claim.
I fund climate activism – and I applaud the Van Gogh protest.
Hancock Prospecting withdraws from $15m funding deal with Netball Australia after players revolt.
Murray Watt on how we can better respond to natural disasters.
France becomes latest country to leave controversial energy charter treaty.
Art attack: can vandalism be justified to save the planet?
How green are the Tory leadership candidates this time round?
Overconsumption, not overpopulation, is driving the climate crisis.
Billions gone: what’s behind the disappearance of Alaska snow crabs?
‘Nature is striking back’: flooding around the world, from Australia to Venezuela.
'Like something you watch in a movie': climate crisis intensifies with catastrophic floods.
Can rituals help with our grief for the natural world?
Stop dismantling German windfarm to expand coalmine, say authorities.
‘I’ve never seen anything like it’: documenting Nigeria’s floods.
How green will new environment secretary Thérèse Coffey be?
Cut meat consumption to two burgers a week to save planet, study suggests.
Businesses call for nature impact disclosures to be mandatory by 2030.
Global health at mercy of fossil fuel addiction, warn scientists.
Deadliest summer for heat-related deaths in Arizona’s biggest county.
The Guardian view on climate diplomacy: it’s crunch time – again.
Emperor penguins listed as endangered by US because of climate crisis.
Virtually all children on Earth will face more frequent heatwaves by 2050.
Budget cuts and Morrison’s pledges: where are the biggest savings coming from?
‘We need to get China’: John Kerry calls for return to bilateral climate talks.
Labor overhauls Australia’s climate spending in budget and sounds warning on future costs.
From solar power for renters to detector dogs – 10 budget measures you may have missed.
Echuca residents say emergency levee has divided town with some homes protected at expense of others.
Narwhals adapting to climate crisis by delaying migration, study finds.
Mark Carney denies big banks threatened to quit climate finance group.
‘He’s a believer’: will Sunak rebuild green agenda torn up by Truss?
Business groups block action that could help tackle biodiversity crisis, report finds.
Major sponsors stick with Netball Australia despite Hancock Prospecting pulling out of $15m deal.
Cop27 gets off to delayed start after tussle over agenda for talks.
Climate crisis: past eight years were the eight hottest ever, says UN.
Britain arrives at Cop27 in disarray over the climate – and the world’s leaders know it.
Cop conferences are a big game of let’s pretend and 27 won’t be any different.
‘The response blew us away’: mass relay takes baton from Glasgow to Cop27.
Flood threat remains in NSW; Daniel Andrews asks ‘what is the point’ of Herald Sun story revisiting his fall.
Conservative gaslighting can’t hide the prowling wolf of recession.
Climate activists glue themselves to frames of two Goya paintings in Madrid.
Loss and damage must be at heart of Cop27 talks, experts say.
Scientist Felix Flicker: ‘Compared with a kung fu fight in public, giving a talk on physics isn’t a problem’.
US voters hit hardest by climate crisis: ‘I need politicians to care about this’.
Cop27: crucial climate talks more fragile than ever after year of turmoil.
Africa is being devastated by a climate crisis it didn’t cause. Cop27 must help.
‘It was like an apocalyptic movie’: 20 climate photographs that changed the world.
I predicted the 2008 crash – these are the global ‘megathreats’ I can see now.
IPCC, methane and carbon offsetting: Cop27 jargon buster.
Who’s who at Cop27: the leaders who hold the world’s future in their hands.
Climate ‘loss and damage’: why it’s such a big deal at Cop27.
Star Trek for potatoes: can a hi-tech farm save french fries from the climate crisis?
Australia will bid for 2026 climate summit, but will face pressure to do more this year at Cop27.
Climate protesters who squashed cake into King Charles waxwork told to pay damages.
Sunak’s warm words on nature sound good, but can they save our last nightingales and swifts?
Protesters interrupt debate of anti-protest bill in House of Lords.
Emissions divide now greater within countries than between them – study.
Will Steffen, ‘courageous’ climate scientist, dies in Canberra aged 75.
Earth is on track to exceed 1.5C warming in the next decade, study using AI finds.
Spain’s prized jamón ibérico under threat from climate crisis.
Weather tracker: Auckland hit by wettest January on record.
‘If you win the popular imagination, you change the game’: why we need new stories on climate.
Death in the marshes: environmental calamity hits Iraq’s unique wetlands.
‘Everything’s gone’: eerie silence on Enid Street provides a glimpse into Australia’s climate future.
Can board games teach us about the climate crisis? Game creators say yes.
Climate activists guilty of smashing Barclays HQ windows spared jail.
Anchorman director to sell Sex Panther prop in climate fund auction.
Farmers’ union called UK environment targets ‘irrational’ and ‘unachievable’.
Should climate activists be punished at all?
EU to crack down on greenwashing with ‘proportionate’ penalties.
Australia must set targets for amount of CO2 to be removed from air, scientists say.
Before the floods I thought climate change wasn’t my problem. Now, I’m not waiting for someone else to fix it.
Fossil fuels kill more people than Covid. Why are we so blind to the harms of oil and gas?
Carbon emissions from global SUV fleet outweighs that of most countries.
Confusion surrounds China’s energy policies as GDP and climate goals clash.
Scientists pour cold water on UK aviation’s net zero ambitions.
A greener Marx? Kohei Saito on connecting communism with the climate crisis.
Climate-resistant grapes? Spanish winemakers revive ancient varieties.
Research reveals climate crisis is driving a rise in human-wildlife conflicts.
Climate campaigners sue BNP Paribas over fossil fuel finance.
Methane emissions ‘incredibly cheap’ to cut without needing offsets, safeguard mechanism inquiry told.
Cybersecurity ‘gaps’ exposed by hacks, paper says.
‘Big irony’ as winter sports sponsored by climate polluters, report finds.
Water mining near Queensland’s Gondwana rainforest ‘unacceptably risky’, opponents say.
Chris Bowen urges Greens to back emissions bill but again rules out ban on new fossil fuel projects.
Vegetable shortages in UK could be ‘tip of iceberg’, says farming union.
‘Try not to step on any toads!’: David Attenborough’s camera wizards on how to film Britain’s wildlife.
UK must quit climate-harming energy charter treaty, experts say.
NatWest to end new business loans for oil and gas extraction.
Sunak uses helicopter and jet for short trips within 24 hours.
What can Starmer learn from Biden? Now is not the time for timidity.
Shell directors personally sued over ‘flawed’ climate strategy.
Fossil fuel companies won’t save us from climate change. We need governments to step up.
A solution to the climate crisis: mining the moon, researchers say.
Why net zero is still the top priority for MPs and peers.
Contempt ruling against environmental protester is a crime against justice.
Half the wetlands in Europe lost in past 300 years, researchers calculate.
UK urged to sack Tony Abbott as trade adviser for joining climate sceptic group.
Britain’s biggest gas supplier accused of ‘profiteering’ from energy crisis.
‘A national scandal’: how US climate funding could make water pollution worse.
‘God, come help us’: Pakistan families still hungry and homeless six months after floods.
‘They get the big picture’: the Swedish tech startup helping cities go green.
Labor’s safeguard mechanism does more to save the fossil fuel industry than it does the planet.
Liberal MP Bridget Archer ‘open-minded’ on Labor’s push to overhaul climate safeguard mechanism.
Moderate Liberals push back against party move to oppose safeguard mechanism reform.
We don’t need ‘miracle’ technologies to fix the climate. We have the tools now.
‘More dignity’: aid organisations switch to cash in drought-hit Ethiopia.
Big agriculture warns farming must change or risk ‘destroying the planet’.
Australia v the climate part 6: Glasgow.
Australia v the climate part 5: a plan for net zero?
Australia v the climate part 4: fossil fuels.
Conservatives insist policies to cut emissions drive up power bills. There’s net zero evidence for that.
Climate crisis brings growing numbers of unusual jellyfish to UK seas.
‘Carbon timebomb’: climate crisis threatens to destroy Congo peatlands.
No more drinking water, little food: our island is a field of bones.
Majority of Australians back taxing fossil fuel companies’ super profits, survey shows.
Europe’s climate warming at twice rate of global average, says report.
Rishi Sunak U-turns on decision not to attend Cop27 climate summit.
After the flood: inside the 4 November Guardian Weekly.
If we keep abusing nature it will collapse, taking us with it. We need a new mindset.
Green energy push a chance for mining sector to reshape dull and dirty image, Sydney conference hears.
Egyptian regime criticized as climate activist arrested in run-up to Cop27.
Just Stop Oil and the threat of the public order bill.
UK methane emissions could be cut by 40% by 2030, says thinktank.
Despite years of exposure to the climate science, I don’t believe we are headed for total societal collapse.
Peers called on to kill public order bill targeting climate activists.
I back saboteurs who have acted with courage and coherence, but I won’t blow up a pipeline. Here’s why.
UK failing to honour net zero farming pledges, report finds.
Climate protesters disrupt BP’s shareholder meeting in London.
‘Endless record heat’ in Asia as highest April temperatures recorded.
Spain braced for record April temperature of 39C as extreme heat causes misery.
Yes, the climate crisis is raising your grocery bills.
A leading private equity firm claimed to be a climate leader – while increasing emissions.
UK investment in clean energy transition falls 10%, bucking global trend.
Life in ocean’s twilight zone ‘could disappear’ amid warming seas.
Sky News Australia’s Outsiders breached industry code for accuracy on climate science, media watchdog finds.
Human-driven climate crisis fuelling Horn of Africa drought – study.
New Zealand too reliant on tree planting to meet net zero emissions targets, experts warn.
Farewell Tucker Carlson, climate change denier whose claims never stacked up.
Record ocean temperatures put Earth in ‘uncharted territory’, say scientists.
Climate protesters call out US banks for funding fossil fuel projects.
How Tasmania’s anti-protest laws drove Bob Brown back to frontline activism.
Tory former net zero tsar calls for halt to Rosebank North Sea oil project.
Carbon dioxide removal: the tech that is polarising climate science.
John Kerry: relying solely on CO2-removal technology is ‘dangerous’.
Hosepipe ban affecting swathes of Devon could last until December.
Wealth tax of 0.5% could cover UK’s share of loss and damage fund, says charity.
Unprecedented €2.2bn drought response plan approved in Spain.
Albanese government approves first new coalmine since taking power.
Impact of warmer seas on fish stocks leads to rise in pirate attacks.
Barcelona’s beaches could vanish as authorities abandon ‘enhancement’.
Black summer bushfires may have caused rare ‘triple dip’ La Niña, study suggests.
At least 21 dead as wildfires rage across Urals and Siberia.
‘Like Nagasaki’: devastating wildfires will only get worse, new book warns.
Knitting Nannas tell court NSW protest laws have left them ‘frightened’ to take climate action.
UK tops list for fossil fuel sites in nature protected areas.
Microbes discovered that can digest plastics at low temperatures.
Drone footage shows Spanish reservoirs dry amid hottest April on record.
More than 400 people now confirmed dead after flooding in DRC.
Republicans take aim at Biden’s climate plan in debt ceiling fight.
Italian oil firm Eni faces lawsuit alleging early knowledge of climate crisis.
‘Mind-boggling’ methane emissions from Turkmenistan revealed.
Frogs in Puerto Rico croak at a higher pitch due to global heating.
‘Unique’ frogs in NSW rainforests feared locally extinct after black summer bushfires.
Cornish farm launches project to triple UK’s temperate rainforest.
Thank goodness for the decent hardworking scientists at the Bureau of Meteorology! OR ARE THEY?
Methane reduction holds key to averting climate catastrophe.
Surviving the smoke-pocalypse 101: Californians offer advice to New Yorkers.
Canada wildfires: blazes intensifying due to climate crisis, says Kamala Harris; Trudeau accuses opposition of inaction.
Canada wildfires smoke could linger over parts of US for days, officials warn.
'He has no plan': Trudeau accuses opposition of inaction as 'Canada burns'.
Air pollution in US from wildfire smoke is worst in recent recorded history.
Green party MP Caroline Lucas to stand down at next election.
Jeremy Hunt stays silent on court hearing to stop oil drilling in Surrey constituency.
Burned to the Ground: the Canadian village incinerated by record temperatures.
Burned to the Ground: the Canadian village incinerated by record temperatures.
Army of fake social media accounts defend UAE presidency of climate summit.
Caroline Lucas was the best PM Britain never had – but she’s shown us how to fix our politics.
Climate crisis leading to more turbulence during flights, says study.
Labour MP defends plans to block North Sea drilling against union criticism.
Global greenhouse gas emissions at all-time high, study finds.
Coral slime, burning trees – and hope: Earth Photo 2023 shortlist.
The planet’s economist: has Kate Raworth found a model for sustainable living?
World Ocean Day: the top Seascape stories of the past year.
Canada’s wildfires are part of our new climate reality, experts and officials say.
‘It’s too much’: New Yorkers don masks or stay inside amid smog crisis.
‘A portion of paradise’: how the drought is bringing a lost US canyon back to life.
‘Things not going well’: plan to return cheetahs to India under fire after six die within months.
Ignoring the science: we do it at our peril – over Covid and the environment.
Risk of hot summer in UK is more than twice normal figure, forecasters warn.
Greta Thunberg takes part in her last school strike for climate.
How to avoid a civil war, by the man who predicted Trump.
Labour’s green pledge offers everything voters want: to delay it would be foolish.
Smoke in the air as Australia’s fire crews prepare for the return of El Niño.
New Zealand’s warming seas threaten Māori food sources relied on for generations.
Smoke from Canadian wildfires hits Norway and flows to southern Europe.
Millions still under air quality warnings in US as weather eases Canada wildfires.
Keir Starmer will have to break a few eggs if he’s to achieve a green economy.
You can rely on public transport in London, but not out here in the sticks.
‘Nowhere is safe now’: wildfire smoke brings climate crisis home to Americans.
Labour doesn’t need to sabotage its green prosperity plan – just to cost it clearly.
New York therapists see surge in eco-anxiety as smoke fills skies: ‘Every client addresses it’.
Footage from space shows Canada wildfires smoke reaching Pennsylvania.
£19.3bn of fossil fuels imported by UK from authoritarian states in year since Ukraine war.
‘They are overlooked by everybody’: elders in Ethiopia bear brunt of the climate crisis.
South Sudan’s floods inspire a first generation of rice growers.
Insulate Britain protester faces prison over contempt of court conviction.
A very American death: how Caleb Blair lost his life in the Phoenix heat.
EXCLUSIVE: The octopus sex scandal that rocked the Antarctic.
Labor urged to halve $8bn a year in fuel tax credits for trucks and heavy vehicles.
In the global race to dominate green technology, Britain is still tying its shoelaces.
‘They’ve taken away my freedom’: the truth about the UK state’s crackdown on ​protesters.
Clue to rising sea levels lies in DNA of 4m-year-old octopus, scientists say.
World’s biggest investment fund warns directors to tackle climate crisis or face sack.
UAE oil company employees given roles in office hosting Cop28.
Europe’s big players should copy Joe Biden’s green deal – not revert to old ways.
‘Don’t tell us the bad news all at once’: how to talk to kids about grown-up things.
Carbon capture project is ‘Band-Aid’ to greenwash $10bn LNG plant, locals say.
Weather tracker: historic rainfall wreaks havoc in New Zealand.
UK butterflies vanish from nearly half of the places they once flew – study.
Pursuing economic growth will kill us all in the end.
Football and the climate crisis: does the game really want to tackle it?
How to get rid of a wood-burning stove.
Brown gold: the great American manure rush begins.
Cop27 host accuses countries of making empty public pledges.
Cop27 is here and the climate crisis is daunting but here’s the key to tackling it – cheer up.
The climate crisis explained in 10 charts.
UN chief warns ‘we will be doomed’ without historic climate pact.
How UN secretary general became an outspoken voice for climate action.
Republican candidates on climate: ‘fake science’ to ‘carbon is healthy’.
The climate is already collapsing in Africa – but its nations have a plan.
Tanya Plibersek to reassess 18 proposed oil and gas projects to consider their climate change impact.
Greenwashing a police state: the truth behind Egypt’s Cop27 masquerade.
Courier-Mail columnist Peter Gleeson weathers scandal as more plagiarism revealed.
Cop27: was this the year climate progress unravelled?
Spanish minister urges Sunak to commit to climate crisis fight.
The climate crisis threatens to rob us not just of our living, but also of our dead.
Cop27: the climate carnage we've faced this year.
‘A renewed sense of urgency’: climate on the ballot in US midterm elections.
‘Climate carnage’: UN demands funding surge to save millions of lives.
How gas is being rebranded as green.
World leaders at Cop27 in Egypt must demand the release of Alaa Abd El-Fattah.
Fossil fuel burning once caused a mass extinction – now we’re risking another.
‘Everyone should be concerned’: Antarctic sea ice reaches lowest levels ever recorded.
‘Like a Meccano set’: how architects are reimagining Brisbane’s homes to survive future flooding.
The UK’s battle cries on net zero have led to nothing – and now time is running out.
Revealed: cabinet ministers warned of legal action over UK’s failure to tackle climate crisis.
‘I warned the FBI about this guy Osama bin Laden’: the people who predicted disasters, from the 2008 crash to Covid.
Adam Bandt says Greens could support key Labor climate policy if fossil fuels developments paused.
Unusually heavy snowfall on US west coast is ‘once-in-a-generation’ event.
Adam Bandt on Labor’s ‘timid’ approach to the climate crisis and inequality.
Warmer UK weather adding to spread of fruit tree diseases.
UK droughts already threaten disastrous breeding year for frogs.
David Pocock wants urgent action on carbon credits before vote on key climate policy.
CO2 emissions may be starting to plateau, says global energy watchdog.
And on drums… Earth! Musicians to credit planet as collaborator to raise funds for activism.
‘A part of winter is missing’: Ottawa grieves over lack of canal ice for skating.
Overconsumption by the rich must be tackled, says acting UN biodiversity chief.
Woodside claims its emissions are falling – but only by using the ‘last resort’ of offsets.
Deflecting sun’s rays to cool overheating Earth needs study, scientists say.
When the climate crisis brings despair, I cultivate my inner connection to nature – and find hope.
Australia joins Vanuatu bid for international court to rule on obligation to prevent climate harm.
Italian ultra-cyclist aims to complete first coast-to-coast crossing of Antarctica by bike.
A pub with no gas: Lithgow residents rely on each other after flooding ruptures pipeline.
Just Stop Oil activists climb gantries along M25 motorway.
'We are in the fight of our lives,' says UN chief at Cop27 climate summit.
Sunak extends UK support for saving forests – but will not give more funding.
World is on ‘highway to climate hell’, UN chief warns at Cop27 summit.
Boris Johnson urges Cop27 summit to 'double down on net zero'.
‘Everyone will be watching’: US midterms cast a long shadow over Cop27.
Loss and damage issue keeps us Cop27 negotiators wrangling late into the night.
Why scientists are using the word scary over the climate crisis.
Billionaires should not make up climate finance gaps, says Bezos Earth Fund head.
Government urged to split IR bill to help low-paid people now.
Monday briefing: The dramatic, agonising, crucial talks that will decide Cop27’s success.
Revealed: US and UK fall billions short of ‘fair share’ of climate funding.
Money talks: why climate finance at Cop27 is key to beating global heating.
Winning teal independents backed by $10.2m in political donations.
Super-rich’s carbon investment emissions ‘equivalent to whole of France’.
Boris Johnson to attack ‘corrosive cynicism’ on net zero at Cop27.
Greta Thunberg isn’t alone in rejecting the UN climate conference, but we still have to be there.
Will Rishi Sunak’s flying visit to Cop27 show us his real stance on climate?
The profound link between the climate crisis and the ocean.
M&S is a shining example of how not to treat the high street – or the planet.
How the climate crisis is threatening power supply stability.
Part 1: Kyoto.
The Guardian view on Brazil’s election: Bolsonaro’s return would cost us all.
World close to ‘irreversible’ climate breakdown, warn major studies.
Climate crisis fuelling unseasonably warm October in UK and Europe, say experts.
Rishi Sunak will not attend Cop27 climate summit.
Climate crisis: UN finds ‘no credible pathway to 1.5C in place’.
100 UK universities pledge to divest from fossil fuels.
I’m going to spend five months with penguins, and no wifi or running water – here’s why.
Carbon emissions from energy to peak in 2025 in ‘historic turning point’, says IEA.
Climate crisis funds not reaching countries in need, senior UN official says.
UK infrastructure at risk from climate crisis due to ‘extreme weakness’ in government.
‘Monstrous’ east African oil project will emit vast amounts of carbon, data shows.
EU on track to break pledge to cut methane emissions by 30%, warns report.
Atmospheric levels of all three greenhouse gases hit record high.
Australian governments urged to scrap ‘one-in-100-year’ flood standard and update risk maps.
Universities in US and Canada beat UK in sustainability league.
Current emissions pledges will lead to catastrophic climate breakdown, says UN.
Google let Daily Wire advertise on ‘climate change is a hoax’ searches.
Storms dumped snow on California. Will it bring a reprieve from the drought?
NSW plan to offer emissions offsets with car registration sends wrong message, critics say.
Why does Australia get so many storms in summer?
Human activity and drought ‘degrading more than a third of Amazon rainforest’.
The Guardian view on carbon offsetting: a model with dangerous flaws.
Food, feed and fuel: global seaweed industry could reduce land needed for farming by 110m hectares, study finds.
Runner says no to competing for GB in Australia over flight climate concerns.
It’s getting hot in here: the return of El Niño.
Africa has become ‘less safe, secure and democratic’ in past decade, report finds.
Can video games change people’s minds about the climate crisis?
UK climate minister received donations from fuel and aviation companies.
Britain, here’s a plan: stop applying old fixes to new problems. And stop obsessing about growth.
In stark contrast: the warming of Europe’s ski resorts – photo essay.
Celebrities call on UK banks to stop financing new oil, gas and coalfields.
Beware! The PC push to ban a patriotic hardworking kitchen appliance is afoot: your gas stove!.
Protesters against South Australian council’s ‘Big Brother’ tech invoke Liberal Alex Antic’s video.
Carbon offsets are a licence to pollute.
Revealed: how US transition to electric cars threatens environmental havoc.
The eviction of Lützerath: the village being destroyed for a coalmine – a photo essay.
The Shepparton floods have revealed cracks in our emergency response systems.
The Coalition is seeing red (meat) over the methane pledge – but it’s not just about burping cattle.
Floods and warm weather perfect storm for Japanese encephalitis outbreak, researchers warn.
‘Climate justice is bigger than public opinion’: are Just Stop Oil’s tactics right?
Wednesday briefing: Just Stop Oil fuels up for a long fight.
Do we really care more about Van Gogh’s sunflowers than real ones?
Concern about climate change shrinks globally as threat grows, survey shows.
Microphones dropped into ocean off Greenland to record melting icebergs.
Next pandemic may come from melting glaciers, new data shows.
Watchdog bans HSBC climate ads in fresh blow to bank’s green credentials.
Coal projects outside China becoming ‘uninsurable’, says climate group.
Tim Winton urges Fremantle Dockers to drop Woodside Energy sponsorship.
New Jersey latest state to sue oil companies over climate misinformation.
‘Buckle up’: US backers of Just Stop Oil vow more Van Gogh-style protests.
Amount of ocean heat found to be accelerating and fuelling extreme weather events.
Greenwashing a police state: the truth behind Egypt’s Cop27 masquerade.
If you don’t like climate activists staging art gallery protests, organise something better.
Wildfires in US west fueling extreme weather in other states, study finds.
Rich countries must urgently help poor nations hit by climate crisis, says V20.
I’m in prison for fighting this government’s fossil fuel folly.
Australia still trails most developed countries in climate performance ranking.
Cop27 is full of politicians and policymakers – but the global south doesn’t work that way.
The big idea: stopping climate change isn’t enough – we need to reverse it.
Australian climate minister to target World Bank’s response to crisis in Cop27 speech.
Labour would create ‘anti-Opec’ alliance for renewable energy, says Miliband.
Fiji's plan to escape rising sea waters.
It was an avoidable mistake for Anthony Albanese not to attend Cop27.
Climate crisis solutions may also ease global financial shocks, Albanese to tell business leaders.
The British right’s hostility to climate action is deeply entrenched – and extremely dangerous.
Ukraine uses Cop27 to highlight environmental cost of Russia’s war.
Albanese and Biden discuss climate action and Aukus pact ahead of G20 summit.
Climate protesters in Lisbon storm building and urge minister to resign.
Throwing soup at the problem: are radical climate protests helping or hurting the cause?
Cop27: US ‘totally supportive’ of moves to address loss and damage, says Kerry.
Food firms’ plans for 1.5C climate target fall short, say campaigners.
Barcelona students to take mandatory climate crisis module from 2024.
The 1.5C climate target is dead – to prevent total catastrophe, Cop27 must admit it.
Cop27 first week roundup: powerful dispatches, muted protest, little cash.
Nineteen years after the ‘fart tax’, New Zealand’s farmers are fighting emissions.